
Puppet environments are mapped directly into Foreman. They can be used at various levels throughout the Foreman interface. Puppet environments are generally used to separate classes from different types of Host, typically allowing changes to a module to tested in one environment (e.g. development) before being pushed to another (e.g production).

#### Defining environments

There are several ways to create Puppet environments within Foreman.

##### Importing from Puppet

Foreman can detect all the environments and classes contained on a Puppet master, and import them automatically. To do this, go to *Configure > Environments* and click on *Import from &lt;proxy-name&gt;*. Foreman will scan the Puppet master via the Smart Proxy, and display a confirmation of the detected changes. Select the changes you wish to apply and confirm.

More information about configuring the Smart Proxy to read environments and Puppet classes is in the [Smart Proxy Puppet](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#4.3.6Puppet) section.

Note that the Smart Proxy will only detect environments that contain one or more Puppet classes, so ensure that at least one Puppet module containing a class has been deployed to the Puppet master.

##### Manual creation

To create an environment by hand, simply go to *Configure > Environments* and click *New Puppet Environment*. Give the new environment a name and save.  Note that if the environment doesn't exist on the Puppet master and you subsequently run an import (above), Foreman will prompt for the environment to be deleted.

#### Assigning environments to hosts

This is done from the Host Edit page, on the Host tab. Selecting an environment will filter the classes visible on the Puppet Classes tab to just the classes in the selected environment.

You can also also mass-assign an environment to a group of hosts - tick the checkboxes of the required hosts in the Hosts list, and then select *Change Environment* from the *Select Action* dropdown menu at the top of the page.

#### Environments with host groups

You can assign an environment to a hostgroup as well. This functions as a form
of default - a user creating a new host and selecting the hostgroup will
automatically have the environment pre-selected. The user is not prevented from changing the environment of the new host, it simply saves a few clicks if they are happy with it.
