## Release notes for {{page.version}}

This section will be updated prior to the next release.

### Headline features

#### Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal) support

Packages for Foreman and its various plug-ins are now being built for Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal) as well.

#### CentOS 8 Stream support

Packages for Foreman and its various plug-ins that are built for CentOS 8 are now being tested on CentOS 8 Stream as well.

#### Host registration improvements

The host registration form has been redesigned and has new fields. The `Install Packages` field can be used to install additional packages while the `Repository` and `GPG keys` fields can be used to configure additional software repositories for yum/dnf or apt.

A new `host_init_config` template replaces the old `Linux registration default` template. This new template is automatically assigned to every operating system.

Additionally, a new API endpoint `/api/registration_commands` makes it easy to generate a registration command.

### Upgrade warnings

#### Removal of mod_passenger support

After defaulting to Puma in Foreman 2.1 and deprecation in Foreman 2.4, support for [mod_passenger is dropped](https://community.theforeman.org/t/drop-passenger-support/22787). The packages have been dropped and the installer can no longer configure it. Users who upgrade using the installer will be migrated automatically but users who upgrade without the installer must take care of this themselves.

### Deprecations

#### Puppet host methods in templates

Methods on the Host object used to configure Puppet have been deprecated in favor of dedicated macros. The old methods will issue a deprecation warning and be removed in a future release.

This is the list of deprecated methods and their successor:
- `@host.environment` -> `host_puppet_environment`
- `@host.puppetmaster` -> `host_puppet_server`
- `@host.puppet_ca_server` -> `host_puppet_ca_server`

#### Puppet 5

Puppet 5 is officially End of Life. Foreman {{page.version}} still supports Puppet 5, but in a future release this will be removed.

### Release Notes

### Contributors

We'd like to thank the following people who contributed to the Foreman {{page.version}} release:

<!-- update scripts/committers.rb with the correct versions and dates and fill this in -->

As well as all users who helped test releases, report bugs and provide feedback on the project.
