The RPMs use a packaging technique called Software Collections, or SCL.  This provides Ruby and all dependencies required to run Foreman separately from the version of Ruby provided by the distribution.

A "tfm" (The Foreman) collection is provided by the Foreman project which ships all dependencies for the main Foreman application, and depends on the "rh-ruby27", "rh-redis5", and "rh-postgresql12" collections which provide a newer version of Ruby, Redis and PostgreSQL.  Packages that are part of these collections will have "tfm-", "rh-ruby27-", "rh-redis5-", and "rh-postgresql12-" prefixes, allowing them to be easily identified, and will install entirely underneath `/opt/theforeman` and `/opt/rh`.

The system Ruby version is left alone and will still be used for packages provided both by the distribution, and other third parties who target the system Ruby (e.g. Puppet packages).

Foreman currently uses SCL only on RHEL and EL clones where a newer version of Ruby is desired.  Fedora only uses the distro version of Ruby.

In order to run rake commands for Foreman, or scripts that run in the same environment, `tfm-rake` and `tfm-ruby` wrappers are provided as alternatives for the usual `rake` or `ruby`.  In order to run a series of commands or a script directly within the software collection, `scl enable tfm 'other command'` can be used.  It is also possible to run `scl enable tfm bash` to get a shell within the context of the SCL.  Foreman rake tasks should be run with `foreman-rake`, which automates using Foreman's rake environment, changes user etc.

More general information about software collections is available from these links:

* [RHEL packaging: Software Collections (SCLs)](http://jnovy.fedorapeople.org/scl-utils/scl.pdf)
* [Fedora Contributor Documentation: Software Collections Guide](http://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/Fedora_Contributor_Documentation/1/html/Software_Collections_Guide/index.html)
