
A compute profile is a way of expressing a set of defaults for VMs created on a
specific compute resource that can be mapped to an operator-defined label. This
means an administrator can express, for example, what "Small", Medium" or
"Large" means on all of the individual compute resources present for a given
installation.

In combination with host groups, this allows a user to completely define a new
host from just the *Host* tab of the *New Host* form.

You can find the configuration for compute profiles at *Infrastructure >
Compute Profiles*

#### Default Profiles

By default, Foreman comes with 3 predefined profiles; "1-Small", "2-Medium",
and "3-Large" (the numbers are just to make them sort nicely). They come with
no associated configuration for any particular compute resource, and as such,
they can be deleted or renamed as required.

![Profile List](/static/images/screenshots/compute_profiles/profile-list.png)

#### Assigning information to a Profile

This walkthrough will define what "1-Small" means for a particular
installation. It will also assume there are two compute resources; one Libvirt
and one EC2 (these make a good example as they are very different).

Start by editing the compute profile, by clicking its name in the profile
list. This leads to a list of all your current compute resources. Later,
once the configuration is done, this list will also display the current
defaults configured for each compute resource.

![Profile Edit](/static/images/screenshots/compute_profiles/profile-edit.png)

##### EC2

Clicking on the EC2 resource will bring up a page very similar to the one used
when provisioning a single host. Here an administrator can set what "1-Small"
means on this specific EC2 resource. For this example, "m1.small" is selected
as the size. Defaults can also be specified for the image choice, the security
groups, and so on.

![EC2](/static/images/screenshots/compute_profiles/ec2.png)

The changes are submitted, and on returning to the profile list, the new EC2
defaults will be shown.

##### Libvirt

In a very similar manner, the Libvirt resource can be clicked upon, and some
defaults assigned. For this example, since this is the "1-Small" profile, 1
CPU, 512MB of RAM, a single bridged network device, and a 5GB disk are
selected.

![Libvirt](/static/images/screenshots/compute_profiles/libvirt.png)

Again, the changes are submitted.

#### Applying a Compute Profile

Now visit *Hosts > New Host*. At first, things look exactly as before, but once
a compute resource is selected which has at least one compute profile, a new
combo-box will appear. This permits the user to select a profile to apply to
this host. For this example, the Libvirt resource is selected, followed by the
"1-Small" profile.

![Primary Tab](/static/images/screenshots/compute_profiles/host-primary.png)

Once the profile is selected, the *Virtual Machine* tab will automatically
update to use the defaults configured in the "1-Small" profile.

![VM Tab](/static/images/screenshots/compute_profiles/host-vm.png)

Assuming the defaults are suitable, the host has now been defined solely by
selecting a host group and a profile. It's also possible to associate a profile
with a host group in the host group edit page, which will automatically select
that profile when the host group is selected.
