## Release notes for {{page.version}}

### Headline features

#### Array, Boolean and other types support in Parameters

Global parameters now support the same types as smart variables and smart class parameters.
As a part of this change searching by parameter value is no longer allowed. ([#4127](https://projects.theforeman.org/issues/4127))

#### Google Compute Resource

Google Compute Resource has been fixed now. Due to changes in google compute APIs, it was previously broken. cloud-init integration has also been added to google compute resource. There are few edge cases which are still need to be handled, but basic provisioning should be functional.

#### Smart Proxy Exposed Capabilities and Settings

The Smart Proxy now provides a v2 features API allowing proxy plugins to declare capabilities and expose settings from their configuration. The Foreman server has been updated to use this new API and store the declared capabitlities and settings.  These will be used in the future to enhance and simplify our interactions with the Smart Proxy. ([#25614](https://projects.theforeman.org/issues/25614), [#25642](https://projects.theforeman.org/issues/25642))

### Release Notes

### Deprecations
* Passing `:confirm` option to `link_to` helper is deprecated and will be removed in 1.24. Please pass it as `data: { confirm: "confirmation text" }` instead. Plugin maintainers should update any usage of the `link_to` helper in their code accordingly.

### Upgrade warnings

* With types support in global parameters, searching by parameter value is no longer allowed.
* Logger named `blob` where template contents is rendered caused excessive log file growth and has been disabled by default. Enable it via `settings.yaml` or foreman-installer if needed.

### Contributors
