
Activate the Puppet CA management module within the Smart Proxy instance.  This is used to manage the autosign configuration and handle listing, signing and revocation of individual certificates.

Builtin providers are:

* `puppetca_hostname_whitelisting` - direct management of Puppet's `autosign.conf`
* `puppetca_token_whitelisting` - manage token-based signing of certificate requests

This should only be enabled in the Smart Proxy that is hosted on the machine responsible for providing certificates to your puppet clients. You would expect to see a subdirectory **ca** in your Puppet's ssldir on such a host. You can determine the ssldir with the command `puppet config print ssldir`. On this host enable the feature in `puppetca.yml`:

<pre>
:enabled: https
</pre>

If your puppet SSL directory is not located in `/var/lib/puppet/ssl`, you'll need to set **ssldir** as well.
<pre>
:ssldir: /etc/puppet/ssl
</pre>

Also choose the provider to use, default should be `puppetca_hostname_whitelisting`:
<pre>
:use_provider: puppetca_hostname_whitelisting
</pre>

#### puppetca_hostname_whitelisting

The puppetca_hostname_whitelisting provider directly manages Puppet's `autosign.conf` file.
This will create an autosign entry for a host during deployment and remove it when deployment is finished.
Furthermore it allows you to manage entries manually using the Foreman WebUI.

The **autosignfile** setting in `puppetca_hostname_whitelisting.yml` is used to find autosign.conf:

<pre>
:autosignfile: /etc/puppet/autosign.conf
</pre>

The location of the file can be determined with `puppet config print autosign`.
The proxy requires write access to the puppet autosign.conf file, which is usually owner and group puppet, and has mode 0644 according to the puppet defaults.

Under a Puppet 4 AIO installation, paths should be set to:

<pre>
:ssldir: /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl
:autosignfile: /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/autosign.conf
</pre>

Ensure the foreman-proxy user is added to the puppet group ( e.g. `gpasswd -a foreman-proxy puppet` or `usermod -aG puppet foreman-proxy`)

puppet.conf:
<pre>
[master]
autosign = $confdir/autosign.conf {owner = service, group = service, mode = 664 }
</pre>

sudo access for the proxy is required - in your sudoers file ensure you allow the "puppet cert" command with NOPASSWD and without requiretty.

Under a Puppet 4 AIO installation, configuration should be:

<pre>
foreman-proxy ALL = NOPASSWD: /opt/puppetlabs/bin/puppet cert *
Defaults:foreman-proxy !requiretty
</pre>

Under a non-AIO Puppet installation:

<pre>
foreman-proxy ALL = NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/puppet cert *
Defaults:foreman-proxy !requiretty
</pre>

For older versions of Puppet (2.x) with separate commands:

<pre>
foreman-proxy ALL = NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/puppetca *
Defaults:foreman-proxy !requiretty
</pre>

#### puppetca_token_whitelisting

The puppetca_token_whitelisting provider uses a token-based certificate signing managed by the Smart proxy itself and queried by Puppet during Provisioning.
This provider adds more security and logging to the autosigning process but does not allow for manual creation of autosigning entries.

This provider has the following settings in `puppetca_token_whitelisting.yml`:

<pre>
:sign_all: false
:token_ttl: 360
:tokens_file: /var/lib/foreman-proxy/tokens.yml
</pre>

By changing **sign_all** to `true` you will disable token verification and sign all certificate requests.
The setting **token_ttl** defines how long a token after creation is valid in minutes.
**tokens_file** sets the path to the file used to store tokens during deployment, the foreman-proxy user requires read and write access to this file.

You can also change the certificate used for encrypting the token file by setting **certificate**. By default it uses the certificate of the Smart Proxy defined in `settings.yml` as **ssl_certificate**.

To integrate this in Puppet the script `puppet_sign.rb` provided by the Smart Proxy has to be used for verfication of the tokens during certificate signing.
If installed via package the script should be already located at `/usr/libexec/foreman-proxy/puppet_sign.rb`.
For manual installation the script can be found on [Github](https://github.com/theforeman/smart-proxy/blob/develop/extra/puppet_sign.rb). Using the latest version should be fine, if you encounter problems try the one released with your Smart Proxy version.
The script has to be executable by the same user running the Puppet master, typically puppet.

After deploying the script the Puppet configuration has to be changed to point the **autosign** setting to the script.

<pre>
[master]
autosign = /usr/libexec/foreman-proxy/puppet_sign.rb
</pre>
