## Release notes for {{page.version}}

### Headline features
#### Debian 10 (Buster) support
Packages for Foreman and its various plug-ins are now being built for Debian 10 (Buster) as well.

### Release Notes

### Deprecations

### Upgrade warnings

* The DNS conflict timeout setting (found under Provisioning) has been changed from an integer to an array of values (separated by comma). It's also renamed to `DNS timeout`. It used to represent timeout (in seconds) for DNS lookup attempts such as the dns_lookup macro and DNS record conflict validations. Multiple values in the array now represent multiple attempts to resolve name over DNS with the default value of [5, 10, 15, 20]. If this value was modified however, the upgrade process will keep the single value. This means there's no retry. Users who've changed this value should review the new value.
* Foreman no longer imports all facts, structured facts (e.g. `networking::interface`) and selected root facts (identified by hardcoded list - see below) are imported up to 100 elements. If a host reports more, they will be dropped and fact named `foreman::dropped_subtree_facts` will contain approximate number of facts dropped (e.g. `2 thousands`). The maximum amount of facts is configurable via Administer - Settings - Provisioning. This change was implemented for large deployments with many nodes and/or hypervisors or container hosts with many virtual network cards, bridges, mountpoints or volumes. The list of root nodes filtered out:
  * blockdevice_
  * ipaddress6?_
  * macaddress_
  * mtu_
  * speed_
  * auto_negotiation_
  * duplex_
  * link_
  * wol_
* Updating a nested resource in the API with a non existing id will no longer fail with the response status code `404 Not Found`, But it will instead fail with `422 Unprocessable Entity` and will present a correct error message. [#26754](https://projects.theforeman.org/issues/26754)
* Multiple methods and tasks that have been deprecated over the past few releases have been removed. Especially noteworthy: 
  * Operating sytems methods `repos` and `medium_uri` have been removed. `pxe_files` method now accepts only one parameter, a medium provider.
  * Template macro `snippets` has been removed in favor of `snippet` macro. The `@repos` template variable has also been removed.
  * Rake tasks `puppet:import:puppet_classes` and `puppet:import:environments_only` have been removed. These actions should be done by using the matching UI or API actions.
  * The `foreman-config` script has been removed. Use `foreman-rake config` instead.
* The `Host group matchers inheritance` puppet setting has been renamed to `Matchers inheritance`. This setting will now manage puppet smart class parameter's matchers inheritance for hostgroups (as in the past) and taxonomies (organizations and locations). With this change it will be possible to inherit (and possibly merge if value's type permit it) values from parent taxonomies as it was already the case for hostgroups.

### Contributors
