
### Migrating to PostgreSQL

Starting from Foreman 2.0, MySQL is no longer a supported database
management system. This chapter describes the process of migrating from MySQL
to PostgreSQL.

Full backup is absolutely necessary before starting the process. We recommend
both database dump and snapshot of whole operating system and data if possible
when running in a VM or on a LVM.

#### Prerequisites

It's a good idea to delete unwanted records from the database. The smaller the
database is, the faster the migration process will be. Typical offenders are
audit records, facts and reports. Foreman ships with rake tasks and cron job to
execute these cleanup tasks, but they can be executed manually. Steps are shown
down below after all instances are stopped.

Foreman does not support plugin uninstallation, any leftovers in the database
might cause issues during migration.

#### Preparing the environment

The first step is to install required dependencies:

    yum install foreman-postgresql

or

    apt-get install foreman-postgresql

Next, stop all your foreman instances and make sure, they stay stopped during
the migration. On Red Hat compatible systems, you need to stop the `httpd` and
(if applicable) `foreman-tasks` service. On EL7, there is a helper utility
called `foreman-maintain` that can be used to ease the process of shutting down
services. Make sure that neither Puppet nor a monitoring system automatically
starts these services again. On Debian compatible systems, stop the `apache2`
service.

You can issue the MySQL command `SHOW FULL PROCESSLIST;` to show you all active
connections to your MySQL database. Make sure that there are none.

The foreman user that has access to your PostgreSQL database and is used for
the conversion temporarily needs super user privileges.

```bash
## postgres@postgres:~  $ su - postgres
## postgres@postgres:~  $ psql
psql (9.6.2)
Type "help" for help.

postgres=# ALTER USER foreman WITH SUPERUSER;
ALTER ROLE
postgres=#
```

#### Pre-migrate cleanup (optional)

Before proceeding migration, it's a good idea to permanently delete all audit
records older than few days, unless they are required for compliance reasons:

    foreman-rake audits:expire days=10 RAILS_ENV="production"

To permanently delete all reports older than 2 days:

    foreman-rake reports:expire days=2 batch_size=50000 sleep_time=0.000001 RAILS_ENV="production"

The command above deletes records in batches of 50k items, it can take a lot of
time to process all records. In both cases, progress can be seen in the
`production.log`. Alternatively a much faster process can be applied instead but
it will delete all data. The following command removes all audit records:

    echo "truncate table audits;" | mysql -u foreman -p -D foreman

The following command removes all reports:

    echo "truncate table sources;" | mysql -u foreman -p -D foreman
    echo "truncate table messages;" | mysql -u foreman -p -D foreman
    echo "truncate table reports;" | mysql -u foreman -p -D foreman
    echo "truncate table logs;" | mysql -u foreman -p -D foreman

The following command removes all facts:

    echo "truncate table fact_values;" | mysql -u foreman -p -D foreman
    echo "truncate table fact_names;" | mysql -u foreman -p -D foreman

#### Migrating

To migrate the data from one database to the other, we will use a rake task.
We will be using `foreman-rake db:convert:prod2dev` to migrate the data.

Foreman internally uses a development framework called Rails. In Rails, you can
have a specific configuration for e.g. a development and a production
environment. Our prod2dev rake task assumes, that the source database is
configured as the production database and the new target database is configured
as the development database. All data in the development database will be
overwritten.

You can configure the new database as Foreman's new development database by
adding a new connection in `/etc/foreman/database.yml`.

It may look like this:

```yaml
# The new target database
development:
  adapter: postgresql
  host: postgres.example.com
  port: 5432
  database: foreman
  username: foreman
  password: "foreman"
  pool: 25

# The old source database
production:
  adapter: mysql2
  host: mysql.example.com
  port: 3306
  database: foreman
  username: foreman
  password: "foreman"
  pool: 25
```

In the next step, call a rake task which will create new database:

```sh
foreman-rake db:create RAILS_ENV=development
```

The new database needs to be set up with all the tables required for Foreman to
operate, so in order to prepare the new database to receive the actual data, we
need to run all of Foreman's database migrations.

```sh
foreman-rake db:migrate RAILS_ENV=development
```

Next, we can finally migrate all the data. This will take a long time depending
on the size of your database. It is highly recommended to run this in a screen
or tmux session.

```sh
foreman-rake db:convert:prod2dev

```

The task performs several actions:

* Migration of the data via prod2dev task
* Reset of PostgreSQL sequences
* Dynflow data migration

#### Wrapping up

Then, make sure to resore the original permissions of your foreman database
user. This can be done on PostgreSQL by issuing this SQL command.

```sql
ALTER ROLE "foreman" NOSUPERUSER;
```

To switch your Foreman instance to the new database, you need to change the
production database configuration in `/etc/foreman/database.yml` to point to
the development installation we configured earlier:

```yaml
production:
  adapter: postgresql
  host: postgres.example.com
  port: 5432
  database: foreman
  username: foreman
  password: "foreman"
  pool: 25
```

Then you can finally start Foreman's services again. On EL7 use
`foreman-maintain service` helper or do:

```sh
systemctl start httpd.service
systemctl start dynflowd.service
```

On Debian systems:

```sh
systemctl start apache2.service
systemctl start dynflowd.service
```

Foreman installer can be used to apply the database configuration change and
start the services. In that case, perform:

    foreman-installer \
      --foreman-db-type=postgresql \
      --foreman-db-manage=true \
      --foreman-db-host=postgres.example.com \
      --foreman-db-database=foreman \
      --foreman-db-username=foreman \
      --foreman-db-password=foreman
