## Release notes for {{page.version}}

This section will be updated prior to the next release.

### Headline features

#### DSL Autocompletion in templates

The template editor now has embedded DSL documentation
(https://yourforeman/templates_doc) as an auto-completion feature that is similar to
modern text editors or IDEs. It allows users to list all available macros whilst
writing a new or changing an existing template. An item in the list shows the
signature of the macro, its description and examples of how to use it. Each item
can be selected to be filled automatically in the template's body by pressing
`Enter` key. The list can be shown by pressing `Ctrl + Space` keys. There is
also `Live Autocompletion` checkbox to examine the list whilst typing.

Autocompletion is disabled by default and can be enabled in the
editor by checking `Autocompletion` checkbox.

### Upgrade warnings

#### Disabling unattended mode dropped

Running Foreman with setting `unattended: false` is dropped.
Every Foreman instance is now effectively running with this setting on.
For more details and discussion read [the RFC](https://community.theforeman.org/t/rfc-remove-unattended-setting/10035).

### Deprecations

BMC credentials access through ENC YAML output and templates is turned off by default for increased security. To turn it on, go to Administer - Settings and turn the "BMC credentials access" setting on.

We've updated our browsers compatibility to support the following:

* Google Chrome - latest version
* Microsoft Edge - latest version
* Apple Safari - latest version
* Mozilla Firefox - latest version
* Mozilla Firefox Extended Support Release (ESR) - latest version

### Release Notes

### Contributors

We'd like to thank the following people who contributed to the Foreman {{page.version}} release:

<!-- update scripts/committers.rb with the correct versions and dates and fill this in -->

As well as all users who helped test releases, report bugs and provide feedback on the project.
