Alternatively to basic authentication, limited OAuth 1.0 authentication is supported
in the API.

#### Configuration of OAuth in Foreman

OAuth must be enabled in Foreman settings. In *Administer > Settings > Authentication*,
search for *OAuth active* configuration and set it to *Yes*. Then set *OAuth consumer key*
to some string. This will be a token used by all OAuth clients.

If you want all API requests made using OAuth to be authorized as built-in anonymous
admin user keep *OAuth map users* set to *No*. If you want to specify the user
under which the request is made, change this configuration option to *Yes*. This 
allows client to send FOREMAN-USER header with the login of existing Foreman user.
Please note that this header is not signed in OAuth request so can be forged.
Anyone with valid consumer key can impersonate any Foreman user.

#### Request example

Usually some OAuth client library is used to generate the request. An example of
curl command can be found here to better understand how it works

    $ curl 'https://foreman.example.com/api/architectures' \
      -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
      -H 'Accept: application/json,version=2' \
      -H 'FOREMAN-USER: ares' \
      -H 'Authorization: OAuth oauth_version="1.0",oauth_consumer_key="secretkey",oauth_signature_method="hmac-sha1",oauth_timestamp=1321473112,oauth_signature=Il8hR8/ogj/XVuOqMPB9qNjSy6E='
      
In example above we list architectures using OAuth for authentication. We try to
do the request under user with login *ares*, if mapping is enabled on Foreman side,
the result will only include architectures, that user *ares* can see. Note that we
constructed the signature manually, this should change with any oauth_timestamp
change. Also it reflects every parameter, HTTP method and URI change. Therefore
we recommend using some OAuth client library that will construct all OAuth
parameters.
