The Command Line Interface is based on the [hammer](https://github.com/theforeman/hammer-cli) framework. The foreman-related commands are defined in plugin ```hammer_cli_foreman```

#### Format and locations

Configuration is set based on the following files, loaded in this order:

 - ```/etc/foreman/cli_config.yml```.
 - ```~/.foreman/cli_config.yml```
 - ```./config/cli_config.yml``` (config dir in CWD)
 - custom location specified on command line - ```-c CONF_FILE_PATH```

Later files have precedence if they redefines the same option.

Hammer uses yaml formatting for its configuration. The config file template is contained in the hammer_cli gem

 ```bash
gem contents hammer_cli|grep cli_config.template.yml
```
and can be copied to one of the locations above and changed as needed. The packaged version of hammer copies the template to /etc for you.


#### Plugins

Plugins are disabled by default. You have to edit the config file and enable them manually under ```modules``` option, as can be seen in the sample config below.

Plugin specific configuration should be nested under plugin's name.

#### Options

 - ```:log_dir: <path>``` - directory where the logs are stored. The default is ```/var/log/foreman/``` and the log file is named ```hammer.log```
 - ```:log_level: <level>``` - logging level. One of ```debug```, ```info```, ```warning```, ```error```, ```fatal```
 - ```:log_owner: <owner>``` - logfile owner
 - ```:log_group: <group>``` - logfile group
 - ```:log_size: 1048576``` - size in bytes, when exceeded the log rotates. Default is 1MB
 - ```:watch_plain: false``` - turn on/off syntax highlighting of data being logged in debug mode

#### Sample config

{% highlight yaml %}
:modules:
    - hammer_cli_foreman

:foreman:
    :host: 'https://localhost/'
    :username: 'admin'
    :password: 'changeme'

:log_dir: '/var/log/foreman/'
:log_level: 'debug'
{% endhighlight %}
