### Upgrading to Foreman {{page.version}}

#### Preparation

Please check the upgrade notes for this release, as there may be things to be
aware of or additional steps:

* [Foreman {{page.version}} Upgrade Notes](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#Upgradenotes)

When upgrading across more than one version it is recommended to upgrade to each
intermediate version and follow all upgrade instructions for the previous versions
before updating to {{page.version}}.

#### Step 1 - Backup

It is recommended that you backup your database and modifications to Foreman
files(config/settings.yaml, unattended installations etc).  Most upgrades are
safe but it never hurts to have a backup just in case.

For more information about how to backup your instance head over to
[Backup](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#5.5.1Backup)

#### Step 2 - Perform the upgrade

Before proceeding, it is necessary to shutdown the Foreman instance.

Now it's time to perform the actual upgrade.  This process if different
depending on how you downloaded Foreman.  You only need to perform *one* of
the following options.

##### Option 1 - Upgrading from a package on Fedora or RHEL

###### Upgrading from 1.3

To upgrade an existing Foreman 1.3 installation, first update with the
appropriate foreman-release package from the above list of release packages,
e.g. for RHEL6

    yum upgrade http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{{page.version}}/el6/x86_64/foreman-release.rpm
    cat /etc/yum.repos.d/foreman.repo.rpmnew > /etc/yum.repos.d/foreman.repo

Clean up the yum cache:

    yum clean all

Next upgrade all Foreman packages:

    yum upgrade ruby\* foreman\*

If you wish to install the SELinux policy, also install the foreman-selinux
package.

You can skip to Step 3.

##### Option 2 - Upgrading from a package on Debian or Ubuntu

###### Upgrading from 1.3

Upgrading from 1.3 to {{page.version}} has been tested on both Debian and Ubuntu. Updating
the packages will upgrade the application and automatically migrate the
database.

<pre>
apt-get update
apt-get dist-upgrade
</pre>

You can skip to Step 3.

##### Option 3 - Downloaded release (tar.bz2)

- Uncompress the new program archive in a *new directory*.
- Copy your database settings-file `config/database.yml` into the new `config` directory.
- If your database is a simple file (e.g. SQLite), don't forget to make it available in the new directory.

VERY IMPORTANT: do NOT overwrite `config/settings.yml` with the old one.

##### Option 4 - Upgrading from git

*Please note* now that the development branch has moved to Rails 3, you MUST
take care to select a branch and make sure you get the correct one.

1. Go to the Foreman root directory and run the following command:

For staying on the stable branch:

- git checkout {{page.version}}-stable
- git pull

The following step is the one that could change the contents of your database.
Go to your new Foreman directory (or the git dir), then migrate and update the
contents of your database:

    foreman-rake db:migrate
    foreman-rake db:seed

You should compile i18n strings and precompile assets now:

    foreman-rake locale:pack
    foreman-rake assets:precompile

#### Step 3 - Cleanup

Database should be migrated already, but you can make sure by executing the
migration script again, it should produce no errors or output:

    foreman-rake db:migrate
    foreman-rake db:seed

You should clear the cache and the existing sessions:

    foreman-rake tmp:cache:clear
    foreman-rake tmp:sessions:clear

#### Step 4 - Restart

Restart the application server (e.g. mongrel, thin, passenger)

#### Common issues

See
[Troubleshooting](http://projects.theforeman.org/projects/foreman/wiki/Troubleshooting)
