
Puppet classes are generally imported from the Puppet Master(s) via the Import
button on the Puppet Classes page. They can also be created by hand, and
manually associated with a set of environments (for filtering purposes).

#### Importing Classes

Go to *Configure > Puppet Classes* and click the Import button. This will not be visible unless you have at least one Puppet Master with a puppet-enabled Smart Proxy

##### The "Hosts" Column

Under *Configure > Puppet Classes* you will also see a column called "Hosts". This column represents the number of hosts the given module/class has been assigned to. Clicking this figure will list the hosts.

This column currently suffers from a [known bug](http://theforeman.org/issues/3846). This bug means this count excludes host groups from final figure.

##### Ignoring classes on import

It's often to have a module structure like this:


{% highlight sh %}
$ tree git/
git/
└── manifests
    ├── init.pp
    ├── install.pp
    ├── params.pp
    └── repo.pp
{% endhighlight %}

In this situation, Foreman would offer to create:

{% highlight sh %}
git
git::install
git::params
git::repo
{% endhighlight %}

However, if we know that the subclasses are not intended for direct consumption, but are only really part of the internal structure of the module, then we would want to exclude those from the import mechanism, so that Foreman only offers to import *git*. We can achieve this via the file *config/ignored_environments.yml*. This file takes a set of regular expressions - any class which matches one of them will not be imported. So, for this example, we might configure:

{% highlight sh %}
:filters:
  - !ruby/regexp '/install$/'
  - !ruby/regexp '/params$/'
  - !ruby/regexp '/repo$/'
{% endhighlight %}

#### Assigning Classes to Hosts

To cause Puppet to apply your classes, you will need to assign them to your
Hosts. This can be done at either an individual host level, or at a group
level. The process is the same; edit the Host(group), select an Environment,
and then go to the Puppet Classes tab and select what classes you want in this Host(Group).

##### Checking the results

To see how Foreman is passing the classes to Puppet, go to a Host and click the YAML button. You will be shown the exact YAML data sent to the PuppetMaster - the classes will be in the "classes" hash.
