Foreman's concept of parameters maps onto Puppet's idea of default-scope [parameters](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/learning/modules2.html "Docs: Learning Puppet — Class Parameters"). Foreman allows us to define a hierarchy of parameter inheritance.

#### Global Parameters

These are defined in *Configure > Global Parameters* and will apply to every host in Foreman.

#### Domain Parameters

These are defined for all Hosts in a given domain. Edit the domain from *Infrastructure > Domains* and switch to the Parameters tab and specify a parameter. If it has the same name as a Global Parameter, it will override the Global one.

#### Hostgroup Parameters

These are defined for all Hosts in the Group. Edit the Hostgroup from *Configure > Host Groups* and switch to the Parameters tab and specify a parameter. If it has the same name as a Global or Domain Parameter, it will override it.

#### Host Parameters

The final (most-specific) level of Parameters applies only to a single Host. Edit a Host and switch to Parameters, and you will see all it's inherited parameters from the other three layers (note: they will all be marked as "Scope: Global" as this refers to the Puppet scope, not the Foreman scope). You can override higher-level parameters or define new ones here.

#### Checking the results

To see how Foreman is passing the parameters to Puppet, go to a Host and click the YAML button. You will be shown the exact YAML data sent to the PuppetMaster -the parameters will be in the "parameters" hash.
