Both BIND as configured in FreeIPA and Microsoft AD DNS servers can accept DNS updates using GSS-TSIG authentication.  This uses Kerberos principals to authenticate to the DNS server.  Under Microsoft AD, this is known as "Secure Dynamic Update".

#### Pre-requisites

* Kerberos principal in the realm/domain that Smart Proxy can use
* Kerberos keytab for the above principal

#### Microsoft AD configuration

A user has to be created in Active Directory that will be used by the Smart Proxy, e.g. `foremanproxy`. This will automatically create a service principal, e.g. `foremanproxy@EXAMPLE.COM`.

Test the Kerberos login with that user on the Smart Proxy using kinit:

    kinit foremanproxy@EXAMPLE.COM
 
This requires that the /etc/krb5.conf file is setup correctly. By default many systems use DNS to locate the Kerberos DC. A KDC can also be statically set in this file. There are dozens of documents on how to do this on the net.

If login works, the keytab file can be created using `ktutil`. First clear the Kerberos ticket cache:

    kdestroy
 
Now create the keytab file with `ktutil`:

    ktutil: addent -password -p foreman@EXAMPLE.COM -k 1 -e RC4-HMAC
    ktutil: wkt dns.keytab
    ktutil: q

Once the keytab file has been created, test it using kinit:

    kinit foreman@EXAMPLE.COM -k -t dns.keytab
 
If this works, clear the Kerberos ticket cache once again using `kdestroy`. 

Store the keytab at `/etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab`, ensure permissions are 0600 and the owner is `foreman-proxy`.

The DNS zone `Dynamic Updates` option on the DNS zones can now be set to `Secure Only`. Now follow the steps below under `Proxy Configuration`.

#### FreeIPA configuration

A service principal is required for the Smart Proxy, e.g. `foremanproxy/proxy.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM`.

First of all, create a new principal (FreeIPA service) for Foreman, e.g. `ipa service-add foremanproxy/proxy.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM`.

Then fetch the keytab, e.g. `ipa-getkeytab -p foremanproxy/proxy.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM -s ipa-server.example.com -k /etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab`.

Store the keytab at `/etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab`, ensure permissions are 0600 and the owner is `foreman-proxy`.

The ACL on updates to the DNS zone then needs to permit the service principal.  In the FreeIPA web UI, under the DNS zone, go to the Settings tab and add to the BIND update policy a new grant:

    grant foremanproxy\047ipa.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM wildcard * ANY;

Note the `\047` is written verbatim, and don't forget the semicolon.

#### Proxy configuration

Next, update the proxy configuration file (`/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.yml`) with the following settings:

    :dns_provider: nsupdate_gss
    :dns_tsig_keytab: /etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab
    :dns_tsig_principal: foremanproxy/ipa.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM
