In this chapter, we will describe how to setup DHCP and DHS for use with the
virsh provider for libvirt.

This provider is able to change DHCP and DNS settings in libvirt with dnsmasq.
This is done via the virsh command. These settings can be for only a single
session, or persistent on the libvirt instance.

The provider is intended for development setups where libvirt is usually used.
With simple steps, one can configure full provisioning on a box with libvirt.

*This provider is not recommended for production use*.

#### Configuration of libvirt

Define the TFTP root first. Edit 'default' virtual network and add 'tftp', 'bootp'
and 'domain' elements.

    <network>
     <name>default</name>
     <uuid>16b7b280-7462-428c-a65c-5753b84c7545</uuid>
     <forward mode='nat'/>
     <bridge name='virbr0' stp='on' delay='0' />
     <domain name="local.lan"/>
     <dns>
     </dns>
     <mac address='52:54:00:a6:01:5d'/>
     <ip address='192.168.122.1' netmask='255.255.255.0'>
       <tftp root='/var/tftproot' />
       <dhcp>
         <range start='192.168.122.2' end='192.168.122.254' />
         <bootp file='pxelinux.0' />
       </dhcp>
     </ip>
    </network>

Create a TFTP root directory, make sure it is writeable by the foreman proxy
user (`foreman-proxy` for instance) and accessible to the account
dnsmasq is running on (in Fedora this is `nobody`), set gid flag for newly
copied files and copy necessary files to the new TFTP root directory:

    mkdir -p /var/tftproot/{boot,pxelinux.cfg}
    yum -y install syslinux
    cp /usr/share/syslinux/{pxelinux.0,menu.c32,chain.c32} /var/tftproot
    chown -R foreman-proxy:nobody /var/tftproot
    find /var/tftproot/ -type d | xargs chmod g+s

#### Configuration of smart-proxy

Configure smart-proxy in `config/settings.yaml` file:

* enable tftp
* set correct tftp boot and set explicit tftp\_servername
* enable dns virsh provider
* enable dhcp virsh provider
* check virsh\_network name (`default` in our case)

Important configuration values are (examples):

    :tftp: true
    :tftproot: /var/tftproot
    :tftp_servername: 192.168.122.1
    :dns: true
    :dns_provider: virsh
    :dhcp: true
    :dhcp_vendor: virsh
    :virsh_network: default

Make sure the user foreman proxy will be running with has `sudo` and `virsh`
commands available and password is not required for virsh command. Also make
sure sudo does not require tty. An example `/etc/sudoers` configuration:

    Defaults !requiretty
    foreman-proxy ALL = NOPASSWD : /usr/bin/virsh

Or for those who are running foreman-proxy under different user:

    %users ALL = NOPASSWD : /usr/bin/virsh

#### Additional steps

Make sure the DNS server is configured with the foreman instance by setting
`/etc/resolv.conf` file or changing this in NetworkManager or dnsmasq
configuration. Example:

    cat /etc/resolv.conf
    nameserver 8.8.8.8
    nameserver 8.8.4.4
    nameserver 192.168.122.1

Foreman is now configured for libvirt provisioning, this is the recommended
setup for git development checkouts. There is one limitation though, reverse
DNS entries are not created (libvirt XML does not support them).
