
#### Configuration

Foreman configuration is managed from two places; a configuration file
*config/settings.yaml* and from the *SETTINGS/Foreman Settings* page. A full
description of the configuration options is given at
[foreman_configuration](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#3.5.2ConfigurationOptions)

#### Database

Foreman requires a database of its own to operate - database sharing is
unsupported.  By default, the installer uses PostgreSQL, while a package or
source installation will use SQLite. 
PostgreSQL is the only database that is considered supported for production use.

In all cases, please use the *production* settings.

to initialize the database schema and content, run:
<pre>foreman-rake db:migrate
foreman-rake db:seed</pre>

For more information please see the database configuration page
[here](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#3.5.3DatabaseSetup)

#### Import Data from Puppet

At this point, you might want to go through the [[FAQ]] to see how can you import your data into Foreman.

#### Start The Web Server

if you installed via rpm, just start the foreman service, or start the builtin web server by typing:
<pre>RAILS_ENV=production rails server</pre>

and point your browser to `http://foreman:3000`

If you would like to keep the server running, its recommend to setup
passenger or use the RPM. Example usage with passenger can be found on
[GitHub](https://github.com/theforeman/puppet-foreman/blob/master/templates/foreman-vhost.conf.erb).

#### Getting your Puppet Reports into Foreman

Read [Puppet_Reports](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#3.5.4PuppetReports) to learn how to get your nodes to report to Foreman.
