Foreman can pass two types of parameters to Puppet via the ENC ([External Node Classifier](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/external_nodes.html)) interface - global parameters (accessible from any manifest), and class parameters (scoped to a single Puppet class).  These can be added in a number of ways through Foreman.

Generally speaking, it's best to use class parameters where possible, as this makes designing, using and sharing Puppet modules and classes easier.  The class may clearly specify which parameters it expects, provide sensible defaults and allow users to override them.  Foreman is also able to import information about class parameters automatically, making it easier to consume new classes without needing to know and enter the precise names of global parameters.

#### Types of parameters in Puppet

In Puppet's DSL, accessing a global parameter or variable is done using `$::example` (preferred) or `$example` for a parameter named "example" in Foreman.  More information about accessing variables is available in the [Puppet Language: Variables](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/lang_variables.html#syntax) documentation.  When looking at the ENC (YAML) output from Foreman, a global parameter will look like this:

{% highlight yaml %}
parameters:
  example: "foo bar"
{% endhighlight %}

When using class parameters, a [class will first be defined](https://docs.puppetlabs.com/puppet/latest/reference/lang_classes.html#defining-classes) with a parameter and may be accessed either using the local name or fully-qualified, e.g.

{% highlight ruby %}
class example($setting) {
  notice($setting)
  notice($::example::setting)  # fully-qualified
}
{% endhighlight %}

When looking at the ENC (YAML) output from Foreman, a class and class parameter will look like this:

{% highlight yaml %}
classes:
  example:
    setting: "foo bar"
{% endhighlight %}

#### Types of parameters in Foreman

Global parameters in Foreman can be added in the following places:

* Globally, per-resource (e.g. host group, domain) or per-host

Class parameters in Foreman can be set in:

* [Puppet classes, as a smart class parameter](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#4.2.5ParameterizedClasses)

#### Global parameters

Host inherit their list of global parameters from the following locations, in order of increasing precedence:

* Globally defined parameters, under *Configure > Global parameters*.  These apply to every host.
* Organization-level parameters, under *Administer > Organizations > edit > Parameters*.
* Location-level parameters, under *Administer > Locations > edit > Parameters*.
* Domain-level parameters, under *Infrastructure > Domains > edit > Parameters*.
* Subnet-level parameters, under *Infrastructure > Subnets > edit > Parameters*.
* Operating system-level parameters, under *Hosts > Operating systems > edit > Parameters*.
* Host group-level parameters, under *Configure > Host groups > edit > Parameters*.
* Host parameters, under *Hosts > All hosts > edit > Parameters*.

The final (most specific) level of global parameters applies only to a single host. Edit a Host and switch to the *Parameters* tab, and you will see all of its inherited parameters from the previous levels. You can override any of these previously-defined parameters or define new ones here.

Global parameters support multiple data types and validation as per type selected. With types support, searching by parameter value is no longer allowed.

#### Checking the results

To see how Foreman is passing the parameters to Puppet, go to a Host and click the YAML button. You will be shown the exact YAML data sent to the Puppet master - the parameters will be in the "parameters" hash.
