### Upgrading to Foreman {{page.version}}

#### Preparation

Please note the following important changes:

* **Users are now case insensitive:** user login names are now case
  insensitive and so any duplicate users will be renamed during upgrade.
* **Debian 6 (Squeeze) support dropped:** read the [release notes](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#Deprecationwarnings)
  for more information.
* **Ubuntu 12.04 (Precise) users:** Puppet 3 and Facter 1.6.12 are now
  required from the [Puppet Labs repo](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/puppetlabs_package_repositories.html#for-debian-and-ubuntu)
  when the Foreman and Puppet master are on the same host ([more info](http://projects.theforeman.org/projects/foreman/wiki/Ubuntu_Precise_Brightbox)).
  When upgrading from v2, check [our upgrade notes](http://projects.theforeman.org/projects/foreman/wiki/FAQ#Upgrade-puppet-from-v2-to-v3-gotchas) for config changes.

If you are upgrading across more than one version, follow upgrade
instructions for all previous versions for additional steps which may be
necessary.

#### Step 1 - Backup

It is recommended that you backup your database and modifications to Foreman
files(config/settings.yaml, unattended installations etc).  Most upgrades are
safe but it never hurts to have a backup just in case.

For more information about how to backup your instance head over to
[Backup](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#5.5.1Backup)

#### Step 2 - Perform the upgrade

Before proceeding, it is necessary to shutdown the Foreman instance (e.g.
`service httpd stop` or `service apache2 stop` usually).

Now it's time to perform the actual upgrade.  This process if different
depending on how you downloaded Foreman.  You only need to perform *one* of
the following options.

##### Step 2 (A) - Fedora or RHEL package (RPM) and installer setups

To upgrade an existing Foreman installation, first update with the
appropriate foreman-release package for your operating system:

    yum upgrade http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{{page.version}}/el6/x86_64/foreman-release.rpm
    yum upgrade http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{{page.version}}/el7/x86_64/foreman-release.rpm
    yum upgrade http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{{page.version}}/f19/x86_64/foreman-release.rpm

Clean up the yum cache:

    yum clean all

Next upgrade all Foreman packages:

    yum upgrade ruby\* foreman\*

In order to catch all configuration changes and manage them properly you should install and run
rpmconf from the EPEL repository along with vim-enhanced (for vimdiff):

    rpmconf -a --frontend=vimdiff

You can skip to Step 3.

##### Step 2 (B) - Debian or Ubuntu package (deb) and installer setups

Upgrading from the last release to {{page.version}} has been tested on both
Debian and Ubuntu. Updating the packages will upgrade the application and
automatically migrate the database.

First edit `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/foreman.list` and change the release
number from the previous release or "stable" to `{{ page.version }}`:

    deb http://deb.theforeman.org/ wheezy {{ page.version }}
    deb http://deb.theforeman.org/ plugins {{ page.version }}

Ubuntu 12.04 (Precise) users must ensure the Brightbox Ruby NG PPA is
configured and that the default Ruby version is 1.8:

    add-apt-repository ppa:brightbox/ruby-ng
    update-alternatives --set ruby /usr/bin/ruby1.8
    update-alternatives --set gem /usr/bin/gem1.8

Next upgrade all Foreman packages:

    apt-get update
    apt-get --only-upgrade install ruby\* foreman\*

You can skip to Step 3.

##### Step 2 (C) - Downloaded release (tar.bz2)

- Uncompress the new program archive in a *new directory*.
- Copy your database settings-file `config/database.yml` into the new `config` directory.
- If your database is a simple file (e.g. SQLite), don't forget to make it available in the new directory.

VERY IMPORTANT: do NOT overwrite `config/settings.yml` with the old one.

##### Step 2 (D) - git checkouts

*Please note* now that the development branch has moved to Rails 3, you MUST
take care to select a branch and make sure you get the correct one.

1. Go to the Foreman root directory and run the following command:

For staying on the stable branch:

- git checkout {{page.version}}-stable
- git pull

The following step is the one that could change the contents of your database.
Go to your new Foreman directory (or the git dir), then migrate and update the
contents of your database:

    foreman-rake db:migrate
    foreman-rake db:seed

You should compile i18n strings and precompile assets now:

    foreman-rake locale:pack
    foreman-rake assets:precompile

#### Step 3 - Post-upgrade steps

##### Step 3 (A) - Database migration and cleanup

The database should be migrated already, but you can make sure by executing the
migration script again, it should produce no errors or output:

    foreman-rake db:migrate
    foreman-rake db:seed

You should clear the cache and the existing sessions:

    foreman-rake tmp:cache:clear
    foreman-rake tmp:sessions:clear

##### Step 3 (B) - Ubuntu 12.04 users, change Ruby version

The configuration on Ubuntu 12.04 is now that the system-wide, default Ruby
version remains on 1.8 (with the update-alternatives commands earlier), but
that the Foreman app under Apache is changed to run under 1.9.

Edit both /etc/apache2/sites-available/05-foreman.conf and
/etc/apache2/sites-available/05-foreman-ssl.conf and anywhere inside the
`<VirtualHost>` block, add:

    PassengerRuby /usr/bin/ruby1.9.1

Lastly, install the necessary Passenger package for Ruby 1.9:

    apt-get install passenger-common1.9.1

##### Optional Step 3 (C) - Run foreman-installer

If you used foreman-installer to set up your existing Foreman instance we
recommend running it again after upgrading. Note that the installer can
modify config files so this may overwrite your custom changes. You can run
the installer in noop mode so you can see what would be changed.

To see what would happen

    foreman-installer --noop --dont-save-answers --verbose

You may see ERRORS such as `/Stage[main]/Foreman_proxy::Register/Foreman_smartproxy[foreman-hostname.domain]:` `Could not evaluate: Connection refused - connect(2)` due to httpd / apache2 service being stopped.  These can be safely ignored.

To apply these changes, run the installer again without options

    foreman-installer

#### Step 4 - Restart

Restart the application server (e.g. mongrel, thin, passenger).

On RPM installations, run:

    service httpd restart

And on Debian/Ubuntu installations with Passenger, run:

    service apache2 restart

#### Common issues

See
[Troubleshooting](http://projects.theforeman.org/projects/foreman/wiki/Troubleshooting)
