
This chapter will provide you with information how to backup a Foreman
instance.

### Database

#### PostgreSQL

The `pg_dump` command can be used to backup the contents of a PostgreSQL
database to a text file. The most reliable way of backing up PostgreSQL
database is:

    su postgres -c "pg_dump -Fc foreman > foreman.dump"

#### MySQL database

The `mysqldump` command can be used to backup the contents of your MySQL
database to a text file.

    mysqldump --opt foreman > foreman.sql

Please follow MySQL documentation about other options for doing backups.

#### SQLite database

To backup SQLite database perform this simple step:

    sqlite3 /path/to/foreman/db/production.db .dump > foreman.dump

SQLite databases are all contained in a single file, so you can back them up
by copying the file to another location, but it is recommended to shut down
the instance first, or at least verify the integrity of the created archive
using sqlite3 command. The dump command above is preferred.

### Configuration

On Red Hat compatible systems issue the following command to backup whole /etc
directory structure:

    tar --selinux -czvf etc_foreman_dir.tar.gz /etc/foreman

For all other distribution do similar command:

    tar -czvf etc_foreman_dir.tar.gz /etc/foreman

### Puppet master

On the puppet master node, issue the following command to backup Puppet
certificates on Red Hat compatible systems

    tar --selinux -czvf var_lib_puppet_dir.tar.gz /var/lib/puppet/ssl

For all other distribution do similar command:

    tar -czvf var_lib_puppet_dir.tar.gz /var/lib/puppet/ssl

### DHCP, DNS and TFTP services

Depending on used software packages, perform backup of important data and
configuration files according to the documentation. For ISC DHCP and DNS
software, these are located within /etc and /var directories depending on your
distribution as well as TFTP service.
