## Release notes for {{page.version}}

This section will be updated prior to the next release.

### Headline features

#### Enabled HTTP/2 on Apache

HTTP/2 is now enabled by default on all platforms.
Compared to HTTP/1(.1) the newer HTTP/2 protocol allows multiplexing over a single connection, making it possible for clients to retrieve multiple resources at the same time.
For example, browsers no longer need to wait for one one image to complete before requesting the next image.

#### Use of system crypto policy with Apache on Enterprise Linux 8

Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 [introduced consistent crypto policies](https://www.redhat.com/en/blog/consistent-security-crypto-policies-red-hat-enterprise-linux-8) and Foreman's installer now configures Apache to use those.
Where previously the installer manually maintained a list of protocols and ciphers, it now follows what is configured system wide.

Note that Katello users can't use the FUTURE policy since `cdn.redhat.com` has a cerificate signed with SHA1 in its signature chain.
This was already a problem prior to this change.
See [Red Hat BZ#2117265](https://bugzilla.redhat.com/show_bug.cgi?id=2117265) for more information.

For Debian/Ubuntu users nothing has changed.

#### Redis 6 on Enterprise Linux 8

The installer now ensures Redis 6 is used on Enterprise Linux 8.
The Redis 5 AppStream [went EOL in May 2022](https://access.redhat.com/support/policy/updates/rhel-app-streams-life-cycle).
Previously it was up to the user to switch streams, but now the installer enforces the `redis:6` stream and updates the package.

#### Allow manual modifications of ansible.cfg

The installer no longer manages ansible.cfg and thus allows users to put in their own modifications.
This file was previously used to configure the options that Foreman required to have set.
This is no longer the case as the necessary options are set using a different mechanism.

### Upgrade warnings

* The `foreman_chef` plugin is unmaintained and broken since a few releases.
  It has been removed from the Installer and Packaging.

### Deprecations

### Release Notes

### Contributors

We'd like to thank the following people who contributed to the Foreman {{page.version}} release:

<!-- update scripts/committers.rb with the correct versions and dates and fill this in -->

As well as all users who helped test releases, report bugs and provide feedback on the project.
