
Foreman is packaged for the following RPM based distributions:

* RHEL and derivatives, version 7
* RHEL and derivatives, version 8

**Note:** The RPM packages are not tested on Scientific Linux or Oracle Linux. The Foreman installation on Scientific Linux or Oracle Linux may or may not work.

For most users, it's highly recommended to use the [installer](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#3.2ForemanInstaller) as the packages only provide the software and a standalone Foreman service.  The installer installs these packages, then additionally configures Foreman to run under Apache with PostgreSQL, plus can configure a complete Puppet setup integrated with Foreman.

### Pre-requisites for Enterprise Linux 7

#### Pre-requisites: EPEL

All RHEL and derivatives must be [subscribed to EPEL](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL) to provide additional dependencies.  Install epel-release from [here](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL#How_can_I_use_these_extra_packages.3F) to automatically configure it.

#### Pre-requisites: Software collections
All RHEL and derivatives require software collections from the CentOS SCLorg Special Interest Group (SIG). Foreman uses the `rh-ruby27`, `rh-postgresql12`, and `rh-redis5` collections - which are from RHSCL.

The rh-ruby27, rh-postgresql12, and rh-redis5 SCL can be installed from the sources below. These sources are noted only for completeness:

1. CentOS SCLo SIG: `yum install centos-release-scl-rh` to configure from CentOS Extras, or [sclo on mirror.centos.org](http://mirror.centos.org/centos/7/sclo/x86_64/rh/) ([docs](https://wiki.centos.org/AdditionalResources/Repositories/SCL))
1. Oracle Linux: [Software Collection Library documentation](http://docs.oracle.com/cd/E37670_01/E59096/html/index.html)
1. RHEL: customers can access RHSCL as a separate repository or child channel (`rhel-server-rhscl-7-rpms`)
1. Scientific Linux: [softwarecollections on ftp.scientificlinux.org](http://ftp.scientificlinux.org/linux/scientific/7x/external_products/softwarecollections/)

#### Pre-requisites: Optional repo (RHEL only)

RHEL 7 hosts must also be subscribed to the RHEL 7 Optional repository or child channel in RHN.

To enable the optional repository on a RHEL 7 system using subscription-manager, run:

    yum-config-manager --enable rhel-7-server-optional-rpms

### Pre-requisites for Enterprise Linux 8

The Ruby 2.7 module is required and is not the default stream for the Ruby module in EL8, therefore it must be enabled:

    dnf module reset ruby
    dnf module enable ruby:2.7

### Pre-requisites: Puppet

It's recommended to [configure the Puppet repositories](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/install_agents.html#task-9788) to obtain the latest version of Puppet available. The version in EPEL is not supported.

### Available repositories

Four main repos are provided at <https://yum.theforeman.org>:

* `/client` or `/client/VERSION` (e.g. `/client/{{page.version}}`) carries packages relevant to clients. This is optional and Foreman does not require anything installed on clients.
* `/releases` or `/releases/VERSION` (e.g. `/releases/{{page.version}}`) carries the all releases and updates of Foreman and its dependencies.
* `/plugins` or `/plugins/VERSION` (e.g. `/plugins/{{page.version}}`) carries the all plugin releases.

Under each repo are directories for each distribution, then each architecture.

### Release packages

To set up the repository, foreman-release packages are provided which add a repo definition to `/etc/yum.repos.d`.  Install the appropriate release RPM from these lists:

    # EL7
    yum localinstall https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{{page.version}}/el7/x86_64/foreman-release.rpm
    # EL8
    yum localinstall https://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{{page.version}}/el8/x86_64/foreman-release.rpm

### Signing

Release and release candidate packages are signed by the per-release key listed on [Security](security.html#GPGkeys).  Nightly packages are not signed.

### Available packages

Install foreman and other foreman-* packages to add functionality:

    foreman               Foreman server
    foreman-proxy         Foreman Smart Proxy
    foreman-debug         Log and debug collection tools
    foreman-ec2           Amazon EC2 provisioning support
    foreman-gce           Google Compute Engine provisioning support
    foreman-libvirt       libvirt provisioning support
    foreman-openstack     OpenStack Nova provisioning support
    foreman-ovirt         oVirt/RHEV provisioning support
    foreman-vmware        VMware provisioning support
    foreman-cli           Foreman CLI utility
    foreman-console       Console additions
    foreman-service       A standalone service implementation
    foreman-selinux       SELinux targeted policy
    foreman-postgresql    PostgreSQL database support

### Setup

1. Configure by editing `/etc/foreman/settings.yaml` and `/etc/foreman/database.yml`
1. After changing the database, migrate it: `sudo -u foreman /usr/share/foreman/extras/dbmigrate`
1. Start the foreman service: `systemctl start foreman`

### Upgrade

See [upgrade instructions](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#3.6Upgrade)
