You can find existing report templates under *Monitor -> Report Templates*. Foreman
comes with few default report templates that are locked. As with other templates,
we do not recommend unlocking and modifying them, as they are automatically updated
on upgrades. If a change of default template is desired, it's recommended to clone
the template and do adjustments in the clone.

#### Generating

To generate a report out of the report template, find the report template and click
the *Generate* button. This will evaluate a template and respond with text file
for download. The rendering itself is done in a background process, but it can run
for a long time.

There's a separate permission for generating the report, so only selected users
can perform resource heavy operations while another users can prepare the report
templates.

##### Scheduling and delivering reports via e-mail

In the form for report generating you can choose a starting time for delayed rendering.
There is no way to schedule repetitions, but as the report generating can be started
by a *hammer report-template* command, scheduling can be achieved using cron.
For these planned reports, as well as for long running reports, it is no longer useful
to have the report downloaded by the web browser. In such cases you can choose to get
the report delivered via e-mail by simply checking *Send report via e-mail* and
filling the e-mail addresses field. Your default e-mail address is prefilled,
but you can fill other(s) and send reports for further processing.
