Activate the Puppet management module within the Smart Proxy instance. This module has two functions:

* Report the Puppet environments and Puppet classes with their parameters from the Puppetserver. Used when importing classes into Foreman
* Optionally trigger immediate Puppet runs on clients using one of a number of implementations

It should be activated on Puppetservers that have the environments and modules available to import data from. This works independently of the Puppet CA functionality. To use the Puppet run functionality, it also needs to configured via an implementation listed in the section below.

To enable this module, make sure these lines are present in `/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.d/puppet.yml`:

```yaml
:enabled: https
```

#### Puppet class/environment imports

<div class="alert alert-info">Parsing manifests is done by Puppet itself, which means the manifests must be valid and pass syntax checks, else they won't show up. Use <code>puppet parser validate example.pp</code> to validate the content of a manifest.</div>

To get a list of environments, classes and their parameters, the proxy queries the Puppetserver on its own API. The URL and settings used for the proxy to Puppetserver API query can be controlled with the following settings in `/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.d/puppet_proxy_puppet_api.yml`:

```yaml
# URL of the puppet master itself for API requests
#:puppet_url: https://puppet.example.com:8140
#
# SSL certificates used to access the puppet API
#:puppet_ssl_ca: /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/certs/ca.pem
#:puppet_ssl_cert: /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/certs/puppet.example.com.pem
#:puppet_ssl_key: /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/private_keys/puppet.example.com.pem
#
# Smart Proxy api timeout when Puppet's environment classes api is used and classes cache is disabled
#:api_timeout: 30
```

The Puppetserver has to permit these API queries. The [HOCON-formatted auth.conf style](https://docs.puppet.com/puppetserver/latest/config_file_auth.html) is at /etc/puppetlabs/puppetserver/conf.d/auth.conf and requires these rules:

<pre>
{
    match-request: {
        path: "/puppet/v3/environments"
        type: path
        method: get
    }
    allow: "*"
    sort-order: 500
    name: "puppetlabs environments"
},
{
    match-request: {
    path: "/puppet/v3/environment_classes"
       type: path
       method: get
    }
    allow: "*"
    sort-order: 500
    name: "puppetlabs environment classes"
},
</pre>

#### Puppet run providers

<div class="alert alert-info">Puppetrun functionality used to be part of Puppet 2. In Puppet 3 it was renamed to puppet kick and later deprecated. Puppet 4 dropped it entirely. Foreman Proxy still calls it puppetrun but has different implementations. Note that Foreman Remote Execution can also trigger Puppet runs from the UI.</div>

For the optional Puppet run functionality, one of a number of implementations can be chosen in `/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.d/puppet.yml`.

```yaml
:use_provider: puppet_proxy_customrun
```
Available providers are:

* `puppet_proxy_mcollective` - uses `mco puppet`, see section below
* `puppet_proxy_ssh` - run puppet over SSH
* `puppet_proxy_salt` - uses `salt puppet.run`
* `puppet_proxy_customrun` - calls a custom command with args

Once a provider is configured, in Foreman itself, enable "puppetrun" under *Administer > Settings > Puppet* to activate the "Run Puppet" button on individual host pages.

##### MCollective

The proxy can trigger Puppet runs using the MCollective "puppet" agent.  To enable this, add this line to `/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.d/puppet.yml`:

```yaml
:use_provider: puppet_proxy_mcollective
```

The user that the Smart Proxy sudos to can be set, notably for PE, by editing `/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.d/puppet_proxy_mcollective.yml`:

```yaml
# If you want to override the puppet_user above just for mco commands
:user: peadmin
```

If `:user` is not specified, it will sudo to root.

And add a sudoers rule for the user:

```
Defaults:foreman-proxy !requiretty
foreman-proxy ALL = NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/mco puppet runonce *
```

##### SSH

The puppet_proxy_ssh provider uses SSH to connect to the client using SSH keys and run the Puppet agent command directly. It is controlled by the following settings in `/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.d/puppet_proxy_ssh.yml`:

```yaml
# the command which will be sent to the host
:command: /usr/bin/puppet agent --onetime --no-usecacheonfailure
#
# whether to use sudo before the ssh command
:use_sudo: false
#
# With which user should the proxy connect
:user: root
:keyfile: /etc/foreman-proxy/id_rsa

# wait for the command to finish (and capture exit code), or detach process and return 0
#:wait: false
```

The `wait` setting controls whether to block on completion of the Puppet command, so the result of the Puppet run can be returned to Foreman, else it's usually asynchronous.  When true, increase `proxy_request_timeout` under *Administer > Settings* in Foreman itself to ensure it waits longer for a response, as the Puppet run may take some time to complete.

In `puppet.yml` the provider must be set:

```yaml
:use_provider: puppet_proxy_ssh
```

The new SSH key needs to be generated by running:
```
ssh-keygen -t rsa -N '' -f /etc/foreman-proxy/id_rsa
chgrp foreman-proxy /etc/foreman-proxy/id_rsa
chmod 640 /etc/foreman-proxy/id_rsa
```

Then, foreman-proxy should be restarted. If using systemd, run:
<pre>systemctl restart foreman-proxy</pre>
Else, the good old service command should work:
<pre>service foreman-proxy restart</pre>

After that, you should make sure the user running foreman-proxy service has a valid home and a writable `.ssh subdirectory`.
Check defined home directory by running
<pre>
ls -d ~foreman-proxy
</pre>

It should return `/usr/share/foreman-proxy`. If no `.ssh` directory exists, one should be created. If it already exists or is a symlink to `/var/lib/foreman-proxy/ssh` (as `smart_proxy_remote_execution_ssh` sets up), it can be used. To create create a .ssh subdirectory with the proper permissions:
<pre>
mkdir /usr/share/foreman-proxy/.ssh
chown foreman-proxy:foreman-proxy /usr/share/foreman-proxy/.ssh
chmod 700 /usr/share/foreman-proxy/.ssh
</pre>

An additional step, but not required (*security warning*) is to disable host keys checking. It means any host allowing this SSH keys to connect will be reachable, without the need to run ssh root@client as foreman-proxy user to accept the host key. The goal here is to allow automatic deployment by only populating the `authorized_keys` file on new clients.

To enable such behavior, we will create a SSH client configuration file to disable host key checking, and disable storing of known keys:
<pre>
echo -e "Host *\n\tStrictHostKeyChecking no\n\tUserKnownHostsFile /dev/null" > /usr/share/foreman-proxy/.ssh/config
chown foreman-proxy:foreman-proxy /usr/share/foreman-proxy/.ssh/config
chmod 600 /usr/share/foreman-proxy/.ssh/config
</pre>

Finally, copy the foreman public key over the target client:
<pre>
su - foreman-proxy -s /bin/bash
ssh-copy-id -i /etc/foreman-proxy/id_rsa root@client-addr
</pre>

#### Salt

The salt provider uses Salt for remote execution, by executing the puppet module's run routine.  It is controlled by the following settings in `/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.d/puppet_proxy_salt.yml`:

<pre>
# Custom salt puppet.run command
# Set :command to 'puppet.run agent no-noop' to run in no-noop mode.
# Default command is puppet.run.
:command: puppet.run
</pre>

##### customrun

The customrun provider allows configuration of a script that implements the Puppet run action in any way you require. Set the following configuration in `/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.d/puppet_proxy_customrun.yml`:

<pre>
# Set :customrun_cmd to the full path of the script you want to run, instead of /bin/false
:command: /bin/false
# Set :customrun_args to any args you want to pass to your custom script. The hostname of the
# system to run against will be appended after the custom commands.
:command_arguments: -ay -f -s
</pre>
