In this chapter, we will describe how to setup DHCP and DNS for use with the
libvirt provider for dnsmasq.

This provider is able to change DHCP and DNS settings in libvirt with dnsmasq.
The smart proxy directly connects to the libvirt daemon.


The provider is currently limited by the libvirt API which does not provide
PTR records creation via the API itself, but dnsmasq automatically creates PTR
record for the first A/AAAA entry. Therefore PTR lookups do work in the
network, but it is not being created by Foreman orchestration.

The provider also returns active leases on systems with `ruby-libvirt` gem
version 0.6.1 or higher.

#### Configuration of libvirt

Define the TFTP root first. Edit 'default' virtual network and add 'tftp', 'bootp'
and 'domain' elements.

```xml
<network>
  <name>default</name>
  <uuid>16b7b280-7462-428c-a65c-5753b84c7545</uuid>
  <forward mode='nat'/>
  <bridge name='virbr0' stp='on' delay='0' />
  <domain name="local.lan"/>
  <dns>
  </dns>
  <mac address='52:54:00:a6:01:5d'/>
  <ip address='192.168.122.1' netmask='255.255.255.0'>
    <tftp root='/var/tftproot' />
    <dhcp>
      <range start='192.168.122.2' end='192.168.122.254' />
      <bootp file='pxelinux.0' />
    </dhcp>
  </ip>
</network>
```

Create a TFTP root directory, make sure it is writeable by the foreman proxy
user (`foreman-proxy` for instance) and accessible to the account
dnsmasq is running on (in Fedora this is `nobody`), set gid flag for newly
copied files and copy necessary files to the new TFTP root directory:

    mkdir -p /var/tftproot/{boot,pxelinux.cfg}
    yum -y install syslinux
    cp /usr/share/syslinux/{pxelinux.0,menu.c32,chain.c32} /var/tftproot
    chown -R foreman-proxy:nobody /var/tftproot
    find /var/tftproot/ -type d | xargs chmod g+s

Open up `/etc/libvirt/libvirtd.conf` file and configure `foreman-proxy` user
to be able to connect to libvirt daemon:

    unix_sock_group = "foreman-proxy"
    unix_sock_rw_perms = "0770"

Alternatively (on development setups), you can turn off authentication:

    auth_unix_rw = "none"

#### Configuration of smart-proxy

Configure the Smart Proxy settings under config/ to:

* enable tftp
* set correct tftp boot and set explicit tftp\_servername
* enable dns libvirt provider
* enable dhcp libvirt provider
* default settings for both providers are sufficient (network named `default`
  on local libvirt daemon instance)

Important configuration values are, in `tftp.yml`:

```yaml
:tftp: true
:tftproot: /var/tftproot
:tftp_servername: 192.168.122.1

in `dns.yml`:

```yaml
:enabled: true
:use_provider: dns_libvirt

in `dhcp.yml`:

```yaml
:enabled: true
:use_provider: dhcp_libvirt

and in `dns_libvirt.yml` and/or `dhcp_libvirt.yml`:

```yaml
:network: default
:url: qemu:///system
```

#### Additional steps

Make sure the DNS server is configured with the foreman instance by setting
`/etc/resolv.conf` file or changing this in NetworkManager or dnsmasq
configuration. Example:

    cat /etc/resolv.conf
    nameserver 8.8.8.8
    nameserver 8.8.4.4
    nameserver 192.168.122.1

Foreman is now configured for libvirt provisioning, this is the recommended
setup for git development checkouts.
