
Foreman can act as a classifier to Puppet through the External Nodes interface. This is a mechanism provided by Puppet to ask for configuration data from an external service, via a script on the Puppet server.

The external nodes script we supply also deals with uploading facts from hosts to Foreman, so we will discuss the two things together.

#### Configuration

##### Puppet server

Download [the ENC script](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/theforeman/puppet-puppetserver_foreman/master/files/enc.rb) to `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/node.rb` (Puppet AIO) or `/etc/puppet/node.rb` (non-AIO). The name is arbitrary, but must match configuration below, and ensure it's executable by "puppet" with `chmod +x /etc/puppet/node.rb`.

Unless it already exists from setting up reporting, create a new configuration file at `/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/foreman.yaml` (Puppet AIO) or `/etc/puppet/foreman.yaml` (non-AIO) containing

```yaml
---
# Update for your Foreman and Puppet server hostname(s)
:url: "https://foreman.example.com"
:ssl_ca: "/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/certs/ca.pem"
:ssl_cert: "/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/certs/puppet.example.com.pem"
:ssl_key: "/etc/puppetlabs/puppet/ssl/private_keys/puppet.example.com.pem"

# Advanced settings
:puppetdir: "/opt/puppetlabs/server/data/puppetserver"
:puppetuser: "puppet"
:facts: true
:timeout: 10
:threads: null
```

Edit the URL field to point to your Foreman instance, and the SSL fields for the hostname of the Puppet server (which may be the same host). Paths to Puppet's SSL certificates will be under /var/lib/puppet/ssl/ and puppetdir will be under /var/lib/puppet when using Puppet with non-AIO. More information on SSL certificates is at [Securing communications with SSL](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#5.4SecuringCommunicationswithSSL).

Add the following lines to the [master] section of puppet.conf:

```ini
[master]
  external_nodes = /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/node.rb
  node_terminus  = exec
```

Restart the Puppet server. When the next agent checks in, the script will upload
fact data for this host to Foreman, and download the ENC data.

The `--no-environment` option can be optionally specified to stop the ENC from
being authoritative about the agent's Puppet environment.  This can be useful
in development setups where the agent may be run against different
environments.

##### Client

No agent configuration is necessary to use this functionality.

##### Testing the config

Make sure that the puppet user can execute the ENC script and it works:

```
sudo -u puppet /etc/puppet/node.rb [the name of a node, eg agent.local]
```

should output something like:

```yaml
parameters:
  puppetmaster: puppet
  foreman_env: &id001 production
classes:
  helloworld:
environment: *id001
```

This output should match the information displayed when you click on the YAML button
on the Host page in Foreman.

For further information see the [Puppet Labs docs on external nodes](https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/nodes_external.html)

##### Debugging the ENC

1. If Puppet agents receive empty catalogs, check the puppet.conf master configuration has the ENC script configured.  Also check the output of the ENC for the hostname logged by Puppet (which may be different) to see if Foreman is reporting the correct configuration.
1. If the hostname.yaml facts file is missing, this is typically a Puppet misconfiguration.
1. Failures to upload facts or download the ENC data may be a network issue (check the URL and SSL settings) or an error on the Foreman server.  Check /var/log/foreman/production.log for two requests, `POST "/api/hosts/facts"` and `GET "/node/client.example.com?format=yml"` and for any errors within the block of log messages.

#### Assigning data to hosts through the ENC

Foreman passes all associated parameters, classes,and class parameters, to the Host,
including those inherited from host groups, domains, or global settings. See section
[Managing Puppet](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#4.2ManagingPuppet) for
more information on assigning configuration to hosts.

#### Creating hosts in Foreman with facts

By default, Foreman adds hosts to its database that it learns about through facts,
provided the "create_new_host_when_facts_are_uploaded" setting is enabled.

Locations and organizations can be inferred from the "foreman_location" or
"foreman_organization" facts as supplied by the host.  The
names of these facts can be changed with the "location_fact" and
"organization_fact" settings respectively.  Foreman will update hosts on each
fact upload based on the value of these facts.

If these facts aren't supplied, then the "default_location" and
"default_organization" settings can be used to set values globally when a
host doesn't have a location or an organization set.

More information in the [Configuration](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#3.5.2ConfigurationOptions)
section.

#### Pushing facts to Foreman when not using the ENC functionality

There are several options for pushing fact data to Foreman if you are using Foreman
for reporting/inventory only.

##### Using node.rb

The ENC script (node.rb) accepts an option to run in 'batch-mode'. In this mode,
the script iterates over the cached fact data stored on the Puppet server, and uploads
all of it to Foreman.

Download and configure the node.rb script as above, and then call it like this:

```
sudo -u puppet /etc/puppetlabs/puppet/node.rb --push-facts
```

The following options are available for node.rb's batch mode:

* `--push-facts` uploads all facts sequentially which have changed since the
  last run.
* `--push-facts-parallel` uploads all facts in parallel which have changed since
  the last run.  The number of threads is specified by the :threads setting or
  the number of processors.
* `--watch-facts` runs in the foreground and upload facts based on inotify
  events, used in conjunction with either --push-facts option.

##### Direct HTTP upload

Foreman's fact-upload API endpoint accepts data in pure JSON. You can push data
to Foreman as a hash containing:

```json
{
  "name": "fqdn-of-host.domain.com",
  "certname": "optional-certname-of-host.domain.com",
  "facts": {
    "fact1": "string",
    "fact2": "true",
    "fact3": "1.2.3.4",
    ...
  }
}
```

The 'certname' is optional but will be used to locate the Host in Foreman when
supplied. See [the API documentation](/api/{{page.version}}/apidoc/v2/hosts/facts.html) for more details.

This body can be POSTed to '/api/hosts/facts' using Foreman API v2. See the
[node.rb template](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/theforeman/puppet-puppetserver_foreman/master/files/enc.rb) for an example of constructing and sending data in Ruby.
