
Puppet classes are generally imported from the Puppet Master(s) via the Import
button on the Puppet Classes page. They can also be created by hand, and
manually associated with a set of environments (for filtering purposes).

#### Importing Classes

Go to *Configure > Classes* and click the Import button. This will not be visible unless you have at least one Puppet Master with a puppet-enabled Smart Proxy. Only classes from modules will be imported, and the Puppet manifests *must* be valid in order for the Smart Proxy to parse them.  Use `puppet parser validate` to test the syntax of Puppet manifests.

More information about configuring the Smart Proxy to read environments and Puppet classes is in the [Smart Proxy Puppet](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#4.3.7Puppet) section.

##### The "Hosts" Column

Under *Configure > Classes* you will also see a column called "Hosts". This column represents the number of hosts the given module/class has been assigned to. Clicking this figure will list the hosts.

##### Ignoring classes on import

It's often to have a module structure like this:


{% highlight sh %}
$ tree git/
git/
└── manifests
    ├── init.pp
    ├── install.pp
    ├── params.pp
    └── repo.pp
{% endhighlight %}

In this situation, Foreman would offer to create:

{% highlight sh %}
git
git::install
git::params
git::repo
{% endhighlight %}

However, if we know that the subclasses are not intended for direct consumption, but are only really part of the internal structure of the module, then we would want to exclude those from the import mechanism, so that Foreman only offers to import *git*. We can achieve this via the file */usr/share/foreman/config/ignored_environments.yml*.

This file is read during each import, causing Foreman to ignore changes to the listed environments or Puppet classes that match the expressions in the file. It will not delete any environments or classes already in Foreman.

Entire environments can be ignored with this configuration:

{% highlight yaml %}
:ignored:
  - development
  - testenv
{% endhighlight %}

Classes can be ignored using a set of regular expressions - any class which matches one of them will not be imported. So, for the above example, we might configure:

{% highlight yaml %}
:filters:
  - !ruby/regexp '/install$/'
  - !ruby/regexp '/params$/'
  - !ruby/regexp '/repo$/'
{% endhighlight %}

Regular expression features such as negative lookaheads can be used for more advanced filtering, e.g. to ignore all classes except for those starting with "role::", the following syntax can be used:

{% highlight yaml %}
:filters:
  - !ruby/regexp '/^(?!role::)/'
{% endhighlight %}

#### Assigning classes to hosts

To cause Puppet to apply your classes, you will need to assign them to your
hosts.  This can be achieved in a number of ways - the best method may vary
depending on how many classes you intend to assign and whether any parameters
need to be overridden.

##### Individual host assignment

When editing a host, Puppet classes may be assigned directly under the *Puppet
Classes* tab.  All classes that are in the Puppet environment selected on the
first *Host* tab will be listed.

##### Via a host group

Host groups tend to correspond to an infrastructure role as each host may be
assigned to a single host group, and typically inherits most of its Puppet
classes in this way.

Puppet classes can be assigned by editing the host group and selecting them
on the *Puppet Classes* tab.

Most host group attributes are copied to a host when it is created, however
Puppet class associations remain inherited from the host group throughout its
lifetime.  Any change to a host group's assigned Puppet classes or parameters
will affect any host with that host group set.

The Puppet environment attribute may be different on the host to the host
group, which means that Puppet classes assigned to the host group may not
exist in the host's own Puppet environment.  Any Puppet classes that are
inherited from the host group, but do not exist in the host's environment will
be left out when Foreman renders the ENC (YAML) output.  Check under
*Configure > Puppet classes* that the classes are available in both the host
group and host environments if they differ.

You can also also mass-assign a host group to a number of hosts - tick the
checkboxes of the required hosts in the Hosts list, and then select *Change
Group* from the *Select Action* dropdown menu at the top of the page.

##### Using config groups

A config group provides a one-step method of associating many Puppet classes
to either a host or host group.  Typically this would be used to add a
particular application profile or stack in one step.

To create a config group, click on *Configure > Config groups*, click *New
Config Group*, enter a name and select the desired Puppet classes.  When
editing either a host or host group, the new config group can be added at the
top of the *Puppet Classes* tab.

Config groups are not specific to an environment and so only those Puppet
classes that are in the host's environment when rendering the ENC (YAML) will
be listed.  Any classes that are not listed in the environment (as per
*Configure > Classes*) will be left out.

Note that it isn't possible to use a smart class parameter override with a
config group, as a host may have many config groups with no way to define an
order of precedence.  Overrides should be made on a host group, host or other
attribute.

##### Checking the results

To see how Foreman is passing the classes to Puppet, go to a Host and click the YAML button. You will be shown the exact YAML data sent to the Puppet master - the classes will be in the "classes" hash.
