
Configuration is broken into two parts. The *config/settings.yaml* file and the *SETTINGS/Foreman Settings* page. The configuration file contains a few low-level options that need to be set before Foreman starts but the majority of Foreman customization is managed from within the program on the *Foreman Settings* page.

#### The config/settings.yaml file

##### YAML start

The first non-comment line of this file must be three dashes.

<pre>
---
</pre>

##### login

This boolean option configures whether Foreman requires users to to login. If it is set then each user will be expected to authenticate themselves and all operations will occur, and be audited, under their identity. When this option is _false_ then all activity will be executed under the admin account.

<pre>
:login: true
</pre>

##### require_ssl

This boolean option configures whether Foreman insists on using only https/ssl encrypted communication channels in the web interface. This does not configure the channels used to contact the smart-proxies. Note that certain operations will still accept a http connection even if this is set, for example, the downloading of a finish script.

<pre>
:require_ssl: true
</pre>

##### unattended

This boolean option configures whether Foreman will act as a simple node classifier for puppet, or support the full spectrum of operations required for managing a host's lifecycle. When set to _true_ then foreman will provide full host building facilities for various operating systems.
<pre>
:unattended: true
</pre>

#### The 'More/Settings' page

##### administrator

When Foreman needs to mail the administrator then this is the email address that it will contact.
Default: root@<your domain>.

##### default_puppet_environment

When Foreman receives a fact upload from a machine that it has not previously come across it will create a host in its database. If the facts from that host did not contain information about the puppet environment then it will assign the _default_puppet_environment_ environment to this host.
Default: production

##### Default_variables_Lookup_Path

A Smart-variable's match criteria are evaluated in a specific order and if this search order is not provided then _Default_variables_Lookup_Path_ is used.
Default: ["fqdn", "hostgroup", "os", "domain"]

##### email_reply_address

The return address applied to outgoing emails.
Default: Foreman-noreply@&lt;your domain&gt;

##### Enable_Smart_Variables_in_ENC

Whether Smart-variables should be included in the yaml node information provided to puppet.
Default: true

##### entries_per_page

The number of entries that will be shown in the web interface for list operations.
Default: 20

##### failed_report_email_notification

If this option is set to _true_ then an email will be sent to the host's owner whenever a report is received that contains errors. If the host is not owned or Foreman is not configured to use logins then send the email to the administrator.
Default: false

##### foreman_url

Emails may contain embedded references to Foreman's web interface. This option allows the hostname component of the URL to be configured.
Default: foreman.<your domain>

##### ignore_puppet_facts_for_provisioning

If this option is set to _true_ then Foreman will not update a host's IP and MAC with the values that it receives in a host's facts and it will also include Foreman's values for IP and MAC to puppet in its node information.
Default: false

##### manage_puppetca

If this option is set to _true_ then Foreman will manage a host's Puppet certificate signing. If it is set to _false_ then some external mechanism is required to ensure that the host's certificate request is signed.
Default: true

##### use_uuid_for_certificates

When enabled, Foreman will generate UUIDs for each host instead of using the hostname as the Puppet certname, which is more reliable with changing hostnames.  Note that when disabling this setting, existing stored certnames won't be changed or discarded until new certificates are requested from a host (i.e. on a rebuild), in order that the existing certificate remains known to Foreman and can be revoked.

##### modulepath

This it the modulepath that foreman uses when processing puppet modules. It is usually able to determine this itself at runtime but if it is not able to find a value then _modulepath_ is used.
Default: /etc/puppet/modules

##### puppet_interval

This is the number of minutes between each run of puppet.
Default: 30

##### puppet_server

The default puppet server hostname. For larger organizations this is often a non fqdn so that a name like _puppet_ can be a different host within each DNS domain.
Default: puppet

##### puppetconfdir
Path to directory containing puppet.conf.
Default: /etc/puppet


##### puppetrun

If this option is set to _true_ then Foreman will be able to trigger a puppet run on any host that it manages.
Default: false

##### root_pass

If a root password is not provided whilst configuring a host then this encrypted password is used when building the machine. The plain text password "123123" has been encrypted to produce the default value.
Default: xybxa6JUkz63w
(To generate a new one you should use: *openssl passwd -1 "your_password"* )


##### safemode_render

The default templating system used within Foreman allows unlimited interpolated variables and expressions. This could obviously be abused so a evaluation environment is provided that restricts the template variables and expressions to a whitelist. When this option is _true_ then only known helper methods and instance variables will be available in template expansion.
Default: true

##### ssl_ca_file

The SSL Certificate Authority file that Foreman will use when connecting to its smart-proxies.
Default: The CA file used by puppet

##### ssl_certificate

The SSL certificate that Foreman will use when connecting to its smart-proxies.
Default: The host certificate used by puppet

##### ssl_priv_key

The SSL private key file that Foreman will use when connecting to its smart-proxies.
Default: The private key file used by puppet

##### update_environment_from_facts

If Foreman receives an environment fact from one of its hosts and if this option is _true_, it will update the host's environment with the new value. By default this is not the case as Foreman should manage the host's environment.
Default: false

##### using_storeconfigs

Must be false, a shared storeconfigs database (which this setting refers to) is now unsupported.
