
A smart proxy is an autonomous web-based foreman component that is placed on a host performing a specific function in the host commissioning phase.
It receives requests from Foreman to perform operations that are required
during the commissioning process and executes them on its behalf. More details
can be found on the [**Foreman Architecture**](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#ForemanArchitecture) page.

To fully manage the commissioning process then a smart proxy will have to manipulate these services, DHCP, DNS, Puppet CA, Puppet and TFTP. These services may exist on separate machines or several of them may be hosted on the same machine. As each smart proxy instance is capable of managing all the of these services, there is only need for one proxy per host.
In the special case of a smart proxy managing a windows DHCP server, the host machine must be running Windows and support the **netsh dhcp** utility, it does not need to be the Microsoft DHCP server itself.

#### Packages

RPM and Debian packages are available, see the [Install from Packages](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#3.3InstallFromPackages) section for configuration and install the `foreman-proxy` package.

#### Source code

You can get the latest stable code from [GitHub](https://github.com/theforeman/smart-proxy) ([via git](git://github.com/theforeman/smart-proxy.git)).

<pre>
git clone git://github.com/theforeman/smart-proxy.git
</pre>

#### Configuration file

Usually can be found at /etc/foreman-proxy/settings.yml or on the config/settings.yml subdirectory.
You can use the *settings.yml.example* file inside the *config* directory as a template for your own *settings.yml*.

If you don't plan to use one of the subsystems, please disable them in this
configuration file. For more information see [**Smartproxy
Configuration**](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#4.3.2SmartProxySettings)


#### Start the daemon

<pre>
  bin/smart-proxy.rb
</pre>

Or if you installed it via a package simply start the foreman-proxy service.

#### Add the smart-proxy to Foreman

* Go to [FOREMAN_URL]/smart_proxies and click *New Proxy*
* Type in the Name for your Proxy and the URL of your Proxy, with the Port used.

For example:
<pre>
  Name: Puppet-Proxy
  URL: http://puppet.your-domain.com:8443
</pre>
