Both BIND as configured in FreeIPA and Microsoft AD DNS servers can accept DNS updates using GSS-TSIG authentication.  This uses Kerberos principals to authenticate to the DNS server.  Under Microsoft AD, this is known as "Secure Dynamic Update".

#### Pre-requisites

* Kerberos principal in the realm/domain that Smart Proxy can use
* Kerberos keytab for the above principal

#### Microsoft AD configuration

A user has to be created in AD that will be used by the Smart Proxy, e.g. `foremanproxy`. This will automatically create a service principal, e.g. `foremanproxy@EXAMPLE.COM`.

Test the kerberos login with that user on your Smart Proxy using kinit:

 kinit foremanproxy@EXAMPLE.COM
 
This requires that your /etc/krb5.conf file is setup correctly. By default many systems use DNS to locate the Kerberos DC. You could also statically set a KDC in this file. There are dozens of documents on how to do this on the net.

If you can login, you can start creating the keytab file using ktutil. First clear your kerberos ticket cache:

    kdestroy
 
Now create the keytab file:

    ktutil
    ktutil: addent -password -p foreman@EXAMPLE.COM -k 1 -e RC4-HMAC
    ktutil: wkt dns.keytab
    ktutil: q

Once you have created your keytab file, you can test it using kinit:

    kinit foreman@EXAMPLE.COM -k -t dns.keytab
 
If this works, clear your kerberos ticket cache once again using kdestroy. 

Store the keytab at `/etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab`, ensure permissions are 0600 and the owner is `foreman-proxy`.

You are done. You can now change the `Dynamic Updates` option on your DNS zones back to `Secure Only`. Now follow the steps under `Proxy Configuration`

#### FreeIPA configuration

A service principal is required for the Smart Proxy, e.g. `foremanproxy/proxy.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM`.

First of all, create a new principal (FreeIPA service) for Foreman, e.g. `ipa service-add foremanproxy/proxy.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM`.

Then you can fetch the keytab, e.g. `ipa-getkeytab -p foremanproxy/proxy.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM -s ipa-server.example.com -k /etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab`.

Store the keytab at `/etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab`, ensure permissions are 0600 and the owner is `foreman-proxy`.

The ACL on updates to the DNS zone then needs to permit the service principal.  In the FreeIPA web UI, under the DNS zone, go to the Settings tab and add to the BIND update policy a new grant:

    grant foremanproxy\047ipa.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM wildcard * ANY;

Note the `\047` is written verbatim, and don't forget the semicolon.

#### Proxy configuration

Next, update the proxy configuration file (`/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.yml`) with the following settings:

    :dns_provider: nsupdate_gss
    :dns_tsig_keytab: /etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab
    :dns_tsig_principal: foremanproxy/ipa.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM
