{% assign foremanver = '1.3' %}

The Provision Templates is the core of Foreman's flexibility to deploy the right OS with the right options. There are several types of template, along with a flexible matching system to deliver different templates to different Hosts.

Foreman comes with pre-created templates for the more common OSs, but you will need to review these.

#### Template Kinds

There are 5 template kinds:

* PXELinux  - Deployed to the TFTP server to ensure the Host boots the correct installer with the correct kernel options
* Provision - The main unattended installation file; e.g. Kickstart or Preseed
* Finish    - A post-install script used to take custom actions after the main provisioning is complete
* Script    - An arbitrary script, not used by default, useful for certain custom tasks
* gPXE      - USed in {g,i}PXE environments in place of PXELinux

In practice, most environments only make use of the first 3. The *Create Host* action deploys the PXELinux template to the TFTP server. The PXELinux template directs the host to retrieve the Provision template. The Provision template will direct the installer to retrieve and run the Finish template at the end of the install, and the Finish template will notify Foreman the build is complete just before reboot.

##### Editing Templates

Clicking a template will take you to the edit page. All templates are
ERB-enabled, and you can access many variables about the to-be-installed-host
within the template. See [**Template Writing**](http://theforeman.org/projects/foreman/wiki/TemplateWriting) for ideas.

As noted in [**4.1.4 Auditing**](manuals/{{foremanver}}/index.html#4.1.4Auditing), changes to the templates are logged as diffs - you can browse the history of changes to the templates from the History tab within the Edit Template page. You can also revert changes here.

#### Template Association

When editing a Template, you must assign a list of Operating Systems which this Template can be used with. Optionally, you can restrict a template to a list of Hostgroups and/or Environments

When a Host requests a template (e.g. during provisioning), Foreman will select the best match from the available templates of that type, in the following order:

* Host-group and Environment
* Host-group only
* Environment only
* Operating system default

The final entry, Operating System default, can be set by editing the Operating System page.

##### Associating an Operating System default template

You will need to associate at least one PXELinux, Provision, and Finish template to your Operating System, and this must be done in two steps. First edit each of the templates, switch to the Association tab, and ensure the appropriate OSs are checked. Then edit the Operating System, switch to the Templates tab, and choose a default template for each template kind.
