#### GET /api/domains

There is no data to send to the server on a **GET** request.

    $ curl -k -u admin:admin -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" http://localhost:3000/api/domains

This returns a collection response. The format for collection responses is described in Section 5.1.3.

#### POST /api/domains

When creating a new object, **POST** a JSON hash with all the necessary fields to create the desired object. In this example, we're creating a domain.

    {
        "name": "foo.bar.com",
        "fullname" : "foo.bar.com description"
    }

&nbsp;

    $ curl -k -u admin:admin -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" -X POST \
        -d "{ \"name\":\"foo.bar.com\",\"fullname\":\"foo.bar.com description\" }" http://localhost:3000/api/domains

This returns the newly created object in the single response format (described in Section 5.1.4).

#### DELETE /api/domains/$id

There is no data to send to the server on a **DELETE** request.

    $ curl -k -u admin:admin -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" -X DELETE http://localhost:3000/api/domains/17

This does not return an json if the operation was successful, only the HTTP status code.

#### PUT /api/domains/$id

When updating an existing object, **PUT** a JSON hash containing only the data to be updated. So in our case, we just want to update the name of a domain, so we're only going to **PUT** `{ "name" : "a new name" }`.

&nbsp;

    $ curl -k -u admin:admin -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" -X PUT \
        -d "{ \"name\": \"a new name\" }" http://localhost:3000/api/domains/12

This returns the newly updated single object (in the single object response format).
