The following examples show the basic CRUD operations (Create, Read, Update, Delete) using the JSON API.

&nbsp;

#### Show a Collection of Objects

Get of a collection of domains: `GET /api/domains`

Send a HTTP **GET** request. No JSON data hash is required.

    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" https://foreman.example.com/api/domains

This returns a collection JSON response. The format for a collection response is described in [Section 5.1.2](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#5.1.2JSONResponseFormatforCollections).

&nbsp;

#### Show a Single Object

Get a single domain: `GET /api/domains/:id` or `GET /api/domains/:name`

Send a HTTP **GET** request with the object's unique identifier, either `:id` or `:name`. No JSON data hash is required.

    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" \
        https://foreman.example.com/api/domains/42
    # or
    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" \
        https://foreman.example.com/api/domains/foo

This returns a single object in JSON format. The format for a single object response is described in [Section 5.1.3](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#5.1.3JSONResponseFormatforSingleObjects).

&nbsp;

#### Create an Object

Create a new domain: `POST /api/domains`

Send a HTTP **POST** request with a JSON data hash containing the required fields to create the object. In this example, a domain is being created.

    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" -X POST \
        -d { "name":"foo.bar.com","fullname":"foo.bar.com description" } https://foreman.example.com/api/domains

This returns the newly created object in JSON format. The format for a single object response is described in [Section 5.1.3](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#5.1.3JSONResponseFormatforSingleObjects).

&nbsp;

#### Update an Object

Update a domain: `PUT /api/domains/:id` or `PUT /api/domains/:name`

Send a HTTP **PUT** request with the object's unique identifier, either `:id` or `:name`, plus a JSON data hash containing only the data to be updated. In this example, only the domain name is being updated.
    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" -X PUT \
        -d { "name": "a new name" } https://foreman.example.com/api/domains/12
    # or
    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" -X PUT \
        -d { "name": "a new name" } https://foreman.example.com/api/domains/foo

This returns the newly updated object in JSON format. The format for a single object response is described in [Section 5.1.3](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#5.1.3JSONResponseFormatforSingleObjects).

&nbsp;

#### Delete an Object

Delete a domain: `DELETE /api/domains/:id` or `DELETE /api/domains/:name`

Send a HTTP **DELETE** request with the object's unique identifier, either `:id` or `:name`. No JSON data hash is required.

    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" -X DELETE \
        https://foreman.example.com/api/domains/17
    # or
    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" -X DELETE \
        https://foreman.example.com/api/domains/foo

This returns the deleted object in JSON format. The format for a single object response is described in [Section 5.1.3](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#5.1.3JSONResponseFormatforSingleObjects).
