---
layout: post
title: Working around the Foreman 1.11.2 DHCP bugs
date: 2016-06-20
author: Julien Pivotto
tags:
- foreman
excerpt: |
  The latest 1.11.2 maintenance release introduced a unfortunate combination of
  regressions regarding DHCP. Here's how to work around them.
---

If you are using the Foreman within a traditional data center, with libvirt
hypervisors and virtual machines managed by Foreman, you should pay attention
at the 1.11.2 Foreman release.

We have updated our lab to that release last week, and we have been debugging
strange behaviours regarding the provisioning of the virtual machines, and in
particular the DHCP provisioning. It turned out that we were affected by two
different bugs.

## The problem

We noticed the problem when we tried to create a new host in the Foreman. It
does not happen daily, as we are mainly rebuilding existing hosts again and
again.

The hosts boots correctly but gets no DHCP lease. It then does not get its PXE
image and is not provisioned. A check in the DHCP leases file indicates that
indeed, we do not have any entry for the newly created host.

## DHCP feature of the Smart Proxy

We have several smart proxies, with different features enabled. However, in the
long list of features we have enabled (TFTP, DNS, templates…), DHCP is simply
missing.

The DHCP feature, while enabled in the smart proxies configuration, is not
detected properly by the Foreman.

In the logs, the following entry is found:

```
ERROR -- : Couldn't enable plugin dhcp: Parameter 'subnets' is expected to have
a non-empty value
```

This is enough to do some research and find [#15240: Couldn't enable plugin
dhcp: Parameter 'subnets' is expected to have a non-empty value][15240], which
points out to a workaround (explicitely define the subnet parameter) and a
[patch][patch1]. It does only affect EL6, which is consistent with our lab.

[15240]: http://projects.theforeman.org/issues/15240
[patch1]: https://github.com/theforeman/smart-proxy/pull/424

## Intermezzo

Patch applied, feature visible in the Foreman. It is now time to "rebuild
config". Nothing happens, DHCP entry is not yet there.

At that moment, we start restarting every services, putting the proxies in DEBUG
log level, without any luck.

A look a the [commits in the 1.11-stable git branch][commits] provides us the
final answer.

[commits]: https://github.com/theforeman/foreman/commits/1.11-stable

## DHCP reservation not added when boot mode is static

The commit list sends us to [#14905 DHCP reservation for PXE boot not added when
using static boot mode][14905]. It turns out that DHCP reservation was not done
when DHCP was not enabled in the host. On the paper, it is something that makes
sense: why should we do something we do not plan to use? But in practice, PXE
provisioning obviously requires DHCP reservation.

Once again a [patch][patch2] is available.

[14905]: http://projects.theforeman.org/issues/14905
[patch2]: https://github.com/theforeman/foreman/commit/2742dec994635556e3caa1ccaf76e621fee79885

## Conclusion

If you are using DHCP/PXE boot in the Foreman, please take extra care when
updating to 1.11.2, you can also maybe wait for 1.11.3 if you have not updated
yet.

Those two independent bugs were very unfortunate and hard to debug, since when
you fix one, you don't see the second one coming. Thanks for the Foreman
developers and community to spot and fix those bugs.

If you can have a development environment with the same Foreman setup as
production, please do, and test the new releases there. Mimic the same things
you do on your production system. That is the best way to increase confidence in
Foreman updates.

Last but not least: having two independent bugs on the same feature is
exceptional (even more in a .2 release) and that should remind us how important
beta-testing and field testing is important. Thanks to everyone contributing to
the Foreman and let's make awesome 1.11.3/1.12.0 releases!
