The FreeIPA implementation of the realm proxy is able to add a host entry to FreeIPA, send the hostgroup name, and request a one-time registration password.

##### Configuration of FreeIPA

In order to create the realm user and keytab to authenticate to FreeIPA, you can use the included `foreman-prepare-realm` tool. Your Smart Proxy must be registered to the FreeIPA realm already, and have the ipa-admintools package installed.

Simply provide a user with admin rights in FreeIPA, and a target user to create.

<div class="alert alert-info">
Do not use 'foreman-proxy' as the username for this -- this is a local user used for running the Smart Proxy service.
</div>

    # foreman-prepare-realm admin realm-proxy
    Password for admin@EXAMPLE.COM:
    ---------------------------------------
    Added permission "modify host password"
    ---------------------------------------
      Permission name: modify host password
      Permissions: write
      Attributes: userpassword
      Type: host
    [...]
    Keytab successfully retrieved and stored in: freeipa.keytab
    Realm Proxy User:    realm-proxy
    Realm Proxy Keytab:  /root/freeipa.keytab

##### Configuration of Smart Proxy

Copy the freeipa.keytab created above to /etc/foreman-proxy/freeipa.keytab and set
the correct permissions:

        chown foreman-proxy /etc/foreman-proxy/freeipa.keytab
        chmod 600 /etc/foreman-proxy/freeipa.keytab

Then update `settings.d/realm_freeipa.yml` with the relevant settings.

If you're using FreeIPA to manage DNS records, and want them to be automatically deleted when the host is deleted in Foreman, set this to true:

    :remove_dns: true

Finally, trust the IPA Certificate Authority. Ensure you have the most up-to-date version of the `ca-certificates` package installed.

    cp /etc/ipa/ca.crt /etc/pki/ca-trust/source/anchors/ipa.crt
    update-ca-trust enable
    update-ca-trust

You will need to disable the DNS proxy for hosts that are provisioned with a realm set, as FreeIPA adds the forward record for you. In order to support adding a reverse lookup record also, you will need to go into the settings for the forward lookup zone on the IPA server and tick `Allow PTR sync`. This will make sure that FreeIPA creates the PTR records for you.

##### Using Automember Rules

FreeIPA supports the ability to setup automember rules based on attributes of a system.  When using the FreeIPA proxy, the Foreman host group is available as a parameter in FreeIPA known as `userclass`.  Nested host groups are sent as displayed in the Foreman UI, e.g. "Parent/Child/Child".  Note that Foreman does send updates to FreeIPA, however automember rules are only applied at initial add.  This will be coming in a [future version of FreeIPA](https://fedorahosted.org/freeipa/ticket/3752).

First, we create a host group in FreeIPA:

    # ipa hostgroup-add webservers
    Description: web servers
    ----------------------------
    Added hostgroup "webservers"
    ----------------------------
      Host-group: webservers
      Description: web servers

Define an automember rule:

    # ipa automember-add --type=hostgroup webservers
    ----------------------------------
    Added automember rule "webservers"
    ----------------------------------
    Automember Rule: webservers

Create an automember condition based on the `userclass` attribute:

    # ipa automember-add-condition --key=userclass --type=hostgroup --inclusive-regex=^webserver webservers
    ----------------------------------
    Added condition(s) to "webservers"
    ----------------------------------
      Automember Rule: webservers
      Inclusive Regex: userclass=^webserver
    ----------------------------
    Number of conditions added 1
    ----------------------------

When a machine in Foreman is in the "webservers" host group, it will automatically be added to the FreeIPA
"webservers" host group as well.  FreeIPA host groups allow for Host-based access controls (HBAC), sudo policies,
etc.
