
The Provision Templates is the core of Foreman's flexibility to deploy the right OS with the right options. There are several types of template, along with a flexible matching system to deliver different templates to different Hosts.

Foreman comes with pre-created templates for the more common OSs, but you will need to review these. All these templates are locked by default, hence they can not be modified. Most of them are customizable through parameters, but if you need some custom functionality, the recommended workflow is to clone the template and edit the clone. You can unlock the pre-created template and edit it directly, but note that any custom change will be overridden on any Foreman update. If you believe your change is worth of including in next Foreman release, please consider sending a patch to [community-templates repository](https://github.com/theforeman/community-templates) which we regularly synchronize with our codebase.

#### Template Kinds

There are several template kinds:

* PXELinux, PXEGrub, PXEGrub2  - Deployed to the TFTP server to ensure the Host boots the correct installer with the correct kernel options (also referred to as PXE templates)
* Provision - The main unattended installation file; e.g. Kickstart or Preseed
* Finish    - A post-install script used to take custom actions after the main provisioning is complete
* user_data - Similar to a Finish script, this can be assigned to hosts built on user_data-capable images (e.g. Openstack, EC2, etc)
* Script    - An arbitrary script, not used by default, useful for certain custom tasks
* iPXE      - Used in {g,i}PXE environments in place of PXELinux (do not confuse with PXE templates above)

In practice, most environments only make use of the first 3. The *Create Host* action deploys the PXELinux template to the TFTP server. The PXELinux template directs the host to retrieve the Provision template. The Provision template will direct the installer to retrieve and run the Finish template at the end of the install, and the Finish template will notify Foreman the build is complete just before reboot.

##### Editing Templates

Unlocked templates can be edited from the *Hosts > Provisioning templates* menu, or from an existing host page under its *Templates* tab (which shows the templates in use).

The templates use the ERB (Embedded Ruby) templating language, allowing data from the host in Foreman to be added to the template output and for conditional content. The default templates make heavy use of the ERB feature, adding and changing the template behavior based on parameters, the operating system, or the networking configuration assigned to the host.

There are two general types of ERB syntax in templates. The `<%=` prefix outputs the value of the following expression into the rendered template, e.g. to output the hostname:

    <%= @host.name %>

The `<%` prefix without the equals sign (`=`) is a general code block that may contain conditionals, variable assignments, or loops which are not output when rendered. Comments may also be in these blocks, prefixed with `#`.

    <%
    a_variable = @host.name
    %>
    <%= a_variable %>

Other examples of ERB syntax are given on the *Help* tab of the template editor, and many more examples are available on the [Template Writing](http://theforeman.org/projects/foreman/wiki/TemplateWriting) wiki page. The *Help* tab also lists available *Global methods (functions)* provided by Foreman such as `foreman_url` (the URL for unattended calls to Foreman), and `template_name`.

The methods available on the provided `@host` variable are limited by default (when `safemode_render` is enabled) to prevent exploitation of Foreman through templates. The permitted methods on all types of objects can be found in the *Safe mode methods and variables* table under the *Help* tab.

As noted in section [4.1.4 Auditing](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#4.1.4Auditing), changes to the templates are logged as diffs - you can browse the history of changes to the templates from the *History* tab within the *Edit Template* page. You can also revert changes here.

#### Template Association

When editing a Template, you must assign a list of Operating Systems which this Template can be used with. Optionally, you can restrict a template to a list of Hostgroups and/or Environments

When a Host requests a template (e.g. during provisioning), Foreman will select the best match from the available templates of that type, in the following order:

* Host-group and Environment
* Host-group only
* Environment only
* Operating system default

The final entry, Operating System default, can be set by editing the Operating System page.

##### Associating an Operating System default template

You will need to associate at least one PXE, Provision, and Finish template to your Operating System, and this must be done in two steps. First edit each of the templates, switch to the Association tab, and ensure the appropriate OSs are checked. Then edit the Operating System, switch to the Templates tab, and choose a default template for each template kind.

More than one PXE template can be associated. In this case, all associated PXE templates are deployed to the TFTP server and only one is picked up during provisioning according to the _PXE Loader_ setting (see below).

##### Templates Details
For image based installs there are two methods to customize and finish the installation. *Finish templates* and *User Data templates*:

###### Finish Templates
Finish templates are available for all hypervisors that support image based installs where the foreman server can reach the newly installed machine via ssh and scp. The script generated from the finish template is copied by the Foreman to the newly installed system via scp using username and password specified with the image. It is then executed by connecting again via ssh, making the script executable and either executing it directly or via sudo if the specified user is not root. Standard output and standard error are logged to a file in the same directory named *bootstrap-UUID.log*.

###### User Data Templates
User Data Templates are available for hypervisors that support customization via tools like *cloud-init*. In this case the installed machine does not need be reachable via ssh by the Foreman server. However, the installed must be able to reach Foreman or a Smart Proxy with the templates feature via http(s) to notify the setup has finished.

###### PXE Loader

When creating a new Host, the _PXE Loader_ option must be selected in order to pass
the correct DHCP filename option to the client. One option out of the following
must be chosen:

* PXELinux BIOS (loads `pxelinux.0` filename from TFTP)
* PXELinux UEFI (loads `pxelinux.efi` filename from TFTP)
* PXEGrub UEFI (loads `grub/bootx64.efi` filename from TFTP)
* PXEGrub UEFI SecureBoot (loads `grub/shim.efi` filename from TFTP)
* PXEGrub2 UEFI (loads `grub2/grubx64.efi` filename from TFTP)
* PXEGrub2 UEFI SecureBoot (loads `grub2/shim.efi` filename from TFTP)
* None - no filename passed (e.g. for HTTP booting via iPXE)

Grub filenames are different for each individual architecture associated with
the Host:

* `grub/bootia32.efi` (for Intel named \"i\*86\" where \* can be any character)
* `grub/bootx64.efi` (for Intel named \"x86-64\")
* `grub2/grubia32.efi` (for Intel named \"i\*86\" where \* can be any character)
* `grub2/grubx64.efi` (for Intel named \"x86-64\")
* `grub2/grubaa64.efi` (for ARM 64 named either \"aa64\" or \"aarch64\")
* `grub2/grubppc64.efi` (for IBM POWER named \"ppc64")
* `grub2/grubppc64le.efi` (for IBM POWER Little Endian named \"ppc64le\")
* `grub2/grubXYZ.efi` (for arbitrary Architecture named \"XYZ\")

Foreman installer only installs `pxelinux.0` and `grub2/grubx64.efi` (if grub2
is available). In order to boot systems via other loaders like PXELinux EFI or
Grub 1 (legacy), deploy the required bootloader files in the TFTP directory.

Some operating systems use a "shim" loader for SecureBoot (e.g. Red Hat
Enterprise Linux and clones). To use SecureBoot with an operating system that
does not use a shim chainloader, make a copy of the signed EFI loader named
`shim.efi` or make a symlink in order to do secure boot.
