The API requires authentication for all endpoints, typically using HTTP Basic authentication. Requests with credentials are authenticated against the users stored in Foreman.

#### HTTP Basic authentication

HTTP Basic authentication (RFC 2617) is supported by a wide range of API and web clients and works by specifying a Base64-encoded username and password in an `Authorization` header. For example, these common clients can access the API with the following arguments:

* `curl -u admin:changeme`, or `curl -u admin` (interactive prompt)
* `wget --user=admin --password=changeme`

Every call to the API will require authentication, unless the client supports sessions (see below). Some clients may also support storing credentials in `~/.netrc` or similar for more privacy.

No confidentiality is provided with this method, so it is very important to use HTTPS when connecting to Foreman to prevent the plain-text credentials from being obtained. (Note that when `require_ssl` is enabled, access to the API will only be allowed over HTTPS.)

#### Session support

When authenticating to the API, a new server-side session will be created on each request and the response will contain a cookie containing a session ID. If this cookie is stored by the client, it can be used on subsequent requests so the credentials are only passed over the connection once.

A basic authenticated request to the status API returns the following `Set-Cookie` header, containing a `_session_id` cookie:

    > GET /api/v2/status HTTP/1.1
    > Authorization: Basic YWRtaW46Y2hhbmdlbWU=
    > Host: foreman.example.com
    > Accept: */*

    < HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    < ...
    < Set-Cookie: _session_id=572ca37e8c5845b900cc58d45d6e1e34; path=/; secure; HttpOnly

When supplying this on subsequent requests, they will use the same account:

    > GET /api/v2/status HTTP/1.1
    > Host: foreman.example.com
    > Accept: */*
    > Cookie: _session_id=572ca37e8c5845b900cc58d45d6e1e34

    < HTTP/1.1 200 OK
    < ...

Command-line clients may support cookie jars for automatic storage of cookies, e.g. `curl -c ~/.foreman_cookies -b ~/.foreman_cookies` will automatically store and use cookies.
