
#### Customize Root Node for Collections

The default root node name for collections is `results` but can be changed.

To change the root node name per API request, pass `root_name=` as a URL parameter. See example below:

    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" \
        https://foreman.example.com/api/domains?root_name=data

&nbsp;

#### Customize Root Node for Single Object

There is no root node as the default for single object JSON responses, but it can be added.

To change the object's root node name per API request, pass `object_name=` as a URL parameter. See example below:

    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" \
        https://foreman.example.com/api/domains/23?object_name=record

&nbsp;

#### Customize Partial Response Attributes

Currently, there is no option to change or customize which attributes are returned for collections or single objects. In the future, customized partial responses such as `fields=field1,field2,field3` or `fields=all` may be implemented ([#3019](http://projects.theforeman.org/issues/3019)). Similarly, there is currently no option to specify child nodes in an API call or to remove child nodes if they are returned by default.

&nbsp;

#### Custom Number of Objects in Collection Per Response

Foreman paginates all collections in the JSON response. The number of objects returned per request is defined in *Administer > Settings > General > entries_per_page*.  The default is 20.  Thus, if there are 27 objects in a collection, only 20 will be returned for the default page=1.

To view the next page, pass `page=` as a URL parameter. See example below:

    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" \
        https://foreman.example.com/api/domains?page=2

The example above will show the remaining 7 objects in our example of 27 objects in the collection.

To increase or decrease the number of objects per response, pass `per_page=` as a URL parameter. See example below:

    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" \
        https://foreman.example.com/api/domains?per_page=1000

This will return all the objects in one request since 27 is less than the `per_page` parameter set to 1000.

&nbsp;

#### Custom Search of Collections Per Response

Foreman uses the scoped_search library for searching and filtering which allows all query search parameters to be specified in one string.  The syntax is described in the [Searching](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#4.1.5Searching) section, and matches exactly the syntax used for the web UI search boxes.  This allows you use of the auto-completer and to test a query in the UI before reusing it in the API.

To filter results of a collection, pass `search=` as a URL parameter, ensuring that it is fully URL-escaped to prevent search operators being misinterpreted as URL separators. See example below:

    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" \
        https://foreman.example.com/api/domains?search=name%3Dexample.com

The number of objects returned will be shown in the `subtotal` metadata field, and the query string will be shown in the `search` metadata field.

&nbsp;

#### Custom Sort of Collections Per Response

Custom sort order per collection can be specified by passing `order=` as a URL parameter. See example below:

    $ curl -k -u admin:changeme -H "Accept: version=2,application/json" \
        https://foreman.example.com/api/domains?order=name+DESC

The default sort order is ascending (ASC) if only a field name is passed.  The sort parameters will be shown in `sort` `by` and `order` metadata fields.
