
The following steps describe how to configure a compute resource and provision new hosts on it.

1. Ensure the necessary package for the provider (from the above table) is installed, e.g. `yum -y install foreman-ovirt`.  Restart the Foreman application to complete installation.

1. Add a compute resource under *Infrastructure > Compute Resources > New Compute Resource*.  Select the provider type from the menu and appropriate configuration options will be displayed.  Check the notes sections below for any provider-specific setup instructions.

1. Click the *Test Connection* button after entering the configuration.  If no error is displayed, the test was successful.

1. After saving the compute resource, existing virtual machines can be browsed by clicking on the compute resource and the *Virtual Machines* tab.

1. For providers that use images, click on the compute resource, then the *Images* tab, where known images are listed.  To register images that Foreman can use, click *New Image* and enter the details.

1. To provision a new host on this compute resource, from *Hosts*, click *New Host* and select the compute resource from the *Deploy to* menu.

Also note the following features:

1. When viewing a host, power management controls and the console access button are in the top right hand corner of the page.

1. If a host provisioned on a compute resource is deleted, the VM and associated storage on the compute resource will also be deleted.

1. Users in Foreman can have access restricted to hosts present on certain compute resources.  For more information, see Filtering in [4.1.2 Roles and Permissions](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#4.1.2RolesandPermissions).
