Foreman integrates with Puppet and Facter in a few places, but generally using a recent, stable version will be fine.  The exact versions of Puppet, Puppetserver and Facter that Foreman is compatible with are listed below.

<table class="table table-bordered table-condensed">
  <tr>
    <th>Puppet version</th>
    <th>Foreman installer (AIO)</th>
    <th>Foreman installer (non-AIO)</th>
    <th>Smart Proxy</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>0.x-5.x</td>
    <td>Not supported</td>
    <td>Not supported</td>
    <td>Not supported</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>6.x</td>
    <td>Deprecated</td>
    <td>Untested</td>
    <td>Deprecated</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>7.x</td>
    <td>Supported</td>
    <td>Untested</td>
    <td>Supported</td>
  </tr>
</table>

#### AIO installer compatibility

The Foreman installer has code for both AIO and non-AIO configurations, switching behavior automatically based on the version of Puppet installed (usually during the first run when answers are stored). Only AIO installations are tested.

#### Puppet server compatibility

Puppetserver is the application for serving Puppet agents used by default since Puppet 4. Both Fedora and Debian have not packaged Puppetserver for their non-AIO packages. The Puppetlabs packages must be used.

#### Facter compatibility

Foreman is known to be compatible with all Facter 2.x to 4.x releases.

#### Puppet Enterprise compatibility

The Foreman installer and packages are generally incompatible with Puppet Enterprise, however with some manual reconfiguration, individual Foreman components such as the smart proxy should work if needed (some further unsupported documentation can be found on the wiki).  The installer in particular will conflict with a Puppet Enterprise installation.  It is recommended that Foreman is installed using [Puppet "open source"](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/installation.html).

