Both BIND as configured in FreeIPA and Microsoft AD DNS servers can accept DNS updates using GSS-TSIG authentication.  This uses Kerberos principals to authenticate to the DNS server.  Under Microsoft AD, this is known as "Secure Dynamic Update".

#### Pre-requisites

* Kerberos principal in the realm/domain that Smart Proxy can use
* Kerberos keytab for the above principal
* Access to add/delete/modify the required zones in Microsoft DNS. Both forward and reverse lookup.

#### Microsoft AD configuration

A user has to be created in Active Directory that will be used by the Smart Proxy, e.g. `foremanproxy`. This will automatically create a service principal, e.g. `foremanproxy@EXAMPLE.COM`.

Test the Kerberos login with that user on the Smart Proxy using kinit:

    kinit foremanproxy@EXAMPLE.COM

This requires that your SRV records in DNS or /etc/krb5.conf file is setup correctly. By default many systems use DNS to locate the Kerberos DC. A KDC can also be statically set in this file. There are dozens of documents on how to do this on the net.

If login works, the keytab file can be created using `ktutil`. First clear the Kerberos ticket cache:

    kdestroy

Now create the keytab file with `ktutil`:

    ktutil: addent -password -p foremanproxy@EXAMPLE.COM -k 1 -e RC4-HMAC
    ktutil: wkt dns.keytab
    ktutil: q

Once the keytab file has been created, test it using kinit:

    kinit foremanproxy@EXAMPLE.COM -k -t dns.keytab

If this works, clear the Kerberos ticket cache once again using `kdestroy`.

Store the keytab at `/etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab`, ensure permissions are 0600 and the owner is `foreman-proxy`.
If you are using SELinux, do not forget to update the file context.

The DNS zone `Dynamic Updates` option on the DNS zones can now be set to `Secure Only`.

Restart the smart proxy service. Next, go to Update the configuration in Foreman.

#### FreeIPA configuration

A service principal is required for the Smart Proxy, e.g. `foremanproxy/proxy.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM`.

First of all, create a new principal (FreeIPA service) for Foreman, e.g. `ipa service-add foremanproxy/proxy.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM`.

Then fetch the keytab, e.g. `ipa-getkeytab -p foremanproxy/proxy.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM -s ipa-server.example.com -k /etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab`.

Store the keytab at `/etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab`, ensure permissions are 0600 and the owner is `foreman-proxy`.

The ACL on updates to the DNS zone then needs to permit the service principal.  In the FreeIPA web UI, under the DNS zone, go to the Settings tab, verify that "Dynamic update" for that zone is set to "True", and add to the BIND update policy a new grant:

    grant foremanproxy\047proxy.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM wildcard * ANY;

Note the `\047` is written verbatim, and don't forget the semicolon.  ACLs should be updated for both forward and reverse zones as desired.

#### Proxy configuration

Update the proxy DNS configuration file (`/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.d/dns.yml`) with the following setting:

    :use_provider: dns_nsupdate_gss

And the DNS GSS configuration file (`/etc/foreman-proxy/settings.d/dns_nsupdate_gss.yml`) with:

    :dns_tsig_keytab: /etc/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab
    :dns_tsig_principal: foremanproxy/proxy.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM

Ensure the `dns_key` setting is not specified, or is commented out.

Restart the smart proxy service. Next, go to Update the configuration in Foreman.

#### Update the configuration in Foreman

After you have added a DNS smart proxy, you must instruct Foreman to rescan the configuration on each affected smart proxy by using the drop-down menu by its name and selecting "Refresh Features".

Now, you are allowed to enable this in each subnet (reverse lookup of domain) and domain (forward lookup of domain) that you want this smart proxy to assist. You do this by navigating there and selecting it in the drop-down menu for DNS.
