
### Upgrading to Foreman {{page.version}}

#### Preparation

Please check the following notes for this release:

* **User group membership cycles:** Previous versions of Foreman allowed you to
  create cycles between user groups. It is no longer supported and will now
  cause errors, so before upgrading you must remove all cyclic memberships. A
  cycle membership (indefinite loop) example is user group A has user group B
  as a member and user group B has user group A as a member at the same time.
  Note that cycles can have more levels (e.g. A -> B -> C -> A).
* **remove_classes_not_in_environment setting:** This setting has been removed
  as the addition of config groups combined with recent versions of Puppet
  makes the previous default behavior problematic.  Foreman 1.5 now only
  supports the removal of classes not applicable to a host in its current
  environment, equivalent to a previous value of 'true'.
* **RPM users with plugins:** Some plugins stored configuration under
  `/usr/share/foreman/config/settings.plugins.d`, which has moved in 1.5.
  Please backup the files inside, then delete this entire directory before
  upgrading, and restore the files inside to `/etc/foreman/plugins/` after
  the upgrade has finished.

When upgrading across more than one version it is recommended to upgrade to each
intermediate version and follow all upgrade instructions for the previous versions
before updating to {{page.version}}.


#### Step 1 - Backup

It is recommended that you backup your database and modifications to Foreman
files(config/settings.yaml, unattended installations etc).  Most upgrades are
safe but it never hurts to have a backup just in case.

For more information about how to backup your instance head over to
[Backup](manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#5.5.1Backup)

#### Step 2 - Perform the upgrade

Before proceeding, it is necessary to shutdown the Foreman instance (e.g.
`service httpd stop` or `service apache2 stop` usually).

Now it's time to perform the actual upgrade.  This process if different
depending on how you downloaded Foreman.  You only need to perform *one* of
the following options.

##### Step 2 (A) - Fedora or RHEL package (RPM) and installer setups

To upgrade an existing Foreman installation, first update with the
appropriate foreman-release package from the above list of release packages,
e.g. for RHEL6

    yum upgrade http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/{{page.version}}/el6/x86_64/foreman-release.rpm

Clean up the yum cache:

    yum clean all

Next upgrade all Foreman packages:

    yum upgrade ruby\* foreman\*

In order to catch all configuration changes and manage them properly you should install and run
rpmconf from the EPEL repository along with vim-enhanced (for vimdiff):

    rpmconf -a --frontend=vimdiff

You can skip to Step 3.

##### Step 2 (B) - Debian or Ubuntu package (deb) and installer setups

Upgrading from the last release to {{page.version}} has been tested on both
Debian and Ubuntu. Updating the packages will upgrade the application and
automatically migrate the database.

First edit `/etc/apt/sources.list.d/foreman.list` and change the release
number from 1.4 or stable to `1.5`:

    deb http://deb.theforeman.org/ wheezy 1.5
    deb http://deb.theforeman.org/ plugins 1.5

Next upgrade all Foreman packages:

    apt-get update
    apt-get --only-upgrade install ruby\* foreman\*

You can skip to Step 3.

##### Step 2 (C) - Downloaded release (tar.bz2)

- Uncompress the new program archive in a *new directory*.
- Copy your database settings-file `config/database.yml` into the new `config` directory.
- If your database is a simple file (e.g. SQLite), don't forget to make it available in the new directory.

VERY IMPORTANT: do NOT overwrite `config/settings.yml` with the old one.

##### Step 2 (D) - git checkouts

*Please note* now that the development branch has moved to Rails 3, you MUST
take care to select a branch and make sure you get the correct one.

1. Go to the Foreman root directory and run the following command:

For staying on the stable branch:

- git checkout {{page.version}}-stable
- git pull

The following step is the one that could change the contents of your database.
Go to your new Foreman directory (or the git dir), then migrate and update the
contents of your database:

    foreman-rake db:migrate
    foreman-rake db:seed

You should compile i18n strings and precompile assets now:

    foreman-rake locale:pack
    foreman-rake assets:precompile

#### Step 3 - Post-upgrade steps

##### Step 3 (A) - Database migration and cleanup

The database should be migrated already, but you can make sure by executing the
migration script again, it should produce no errors or output:

    foreman-rake db:migrate
    foreman-rake db:seed

You should clear the cache and the existing sessions:

    foreman-rake tmp:cache:clear
    foreman-rake tmp:sessions:clear

##### Step 3 (B) - Hammer configuration changes

The location of Hammer (CLI) configuration files has changed from /etc/foreman
to /etc/hammer.

Either update the new split configuration in /etc/hammer or
`mv /etc/foreman/cli_config.yml /etc/hammer/cli.modules.d/migrated.yml`.
Similarly, any configuration in ~/.foreman should be moved to ~/.hammer.

##### Step 3 (C) - oVirt SSL certificate verification

Foreman now verifies SSL certificates on oVirt compute resources.  oVirt users
must edit the compute resources through the Foreman UI, click the *Load
datacenters* and *Test connection* buttons to have Foreman store the SSL CA,
and then save the compute resource.

##### Step 3 (D) - roles and filters

Existing user filters will have been converted to roles and filters for
resources, however since these were per-user in previous versions, it may be
prudent to deduplicate and tidy the automatically generated roles created
during the upgrade process.  At the least, it is recommended to review the
permissions assigned to users through the roles and filters to ensure that
they have remained accurate.

Roles can now be assigned to user groups, so it is recommended to unify as
many roles as possible and create simpler sets of filters that can be applied
to many users at once.

##### Step 3 (E) - Users subscribed to all host groups

A feature present from 1.3, which allows admins to subscribe users to all host groups so that these users can manage all host groups created without being admins, has been phased out in favor of the new permissions system.

If you want to replicate this feature in 1.5+, create a new filter under any role your users will use. Resource type must be "Host Group", permission must be "view_hostgroups", unlimited box must be checked.

Roles "Manager", "Viewer", "Site manager", "Default user" auto-created by Foreman already have this filter.

#### Step 4 - Restart

Restart the application server (e.g. mongrel, thin, passenger).

On RPM installations, run:

    service httpd restart

And on Debian/Ubuntu installations with Passenger, run:

    service apache2 restart

#### Common issues

See
[Troubleshooting](http://projects.theforeman.org/projects/foreman/wiki/Troubleshooting)
