
Installing the latest development code:
Foreman has now moved to using Rails 3 and Bundler to get up and running. This is the preferred way to get Foreman if you want to benefit from the latest improvements. By using the git repository you can also upgrade more easily. You will need to have Bundler installed manually for now (check your distribution repositories, or install it via rubygems).

Foreman will run with the following requirements (aside from rubygem dependencies):

* Ruby 1.8.7 or 1.9
* rubygems
* Puppet >= 0.24.4

The installation has been successfully tested on RHEL[5,6], Fedora[13,14,15,16,17], Debian Linux 6.0 (Squeeze) and Ubuntu Linux 12.04 (the community has reported varying success with other Debian/Ubuntu versions - 12.10 seems fine for example). For older operating systems you might need additional packages (e.g. sqlite).  It is also known to work on Solaris and Mac.

to get latest "development" version do:

You will want to make sure that you have one of the *mysql-devel*,
*postgresql-devel*, and *sqlite-devel* libraries installed so the database
gems can install properly. Also, you would also need *gcc*, *ruby-devel*,
*libxml-devel*, *libxslt-devel*, and *libvirt-devel* packages

For RHEL6 or clones, you can issue the following commands to install *all*
required packages:

    yum groupinstall "Development Tools" "Development Libraries"
    yum -y install gcc-c++ git ruby ruby-devel rubygems \
        libvirt-devel mysql-devel postgresql-devel openssl-devel \
        libxml2-devel sqlite-devel libxslt-devel zlib-devel \
        readline-devel tar

Additionally, it is important that `config/database.yml` is set to use
the correct database in the "production" block. Rails (and subsequently
Foreman) will use these connection settings under "production" to manage
the database it uses and setup the necessary schema.

{% highlight bash %}
git clone https://github.com/theforeman/foreman.git -b develop
cd foreman
cp config/settings.yaml.example config/settings.yaml
cp config/database.yml.example config/database.yml
gem install bundler
# depending on database configured in yml file you can skip others
# (we are assuming sqlite to be configured)
bundle install --without mysql2 pg test --path vendor # or postgresql
# set up database schema, precompile assets and locales
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake db:migrate
RAILS_ENV=production bundle exec rake db:seed assets:precompile locale:pack
{% endhighlight %}

In order to run Foreman you can use the following command inside your git repository:

{% highlight bash %}
./script/rails s -e production
{% endhighlight %}

<div class="alert alert-info">This manual will recommend <code>foreman-rake &lt;task&gt;</code> to run rake tasks, however when installed from source, replace this with <code>bundle exec rake &lt;task&gt; RAILS_ENV=production</code></div>

### Latest stable version

to get latest "stable" version do:

{% highlight bash %}
git clone https://github.com/theforeman/foreman.git -b {{page.version}}-stable
{% endhighlight %}

### CLI (Hammer)

To install hammer from git checkouts, you will just need ```rake``` installed on your system.
Clone and install CLI core

{% highlight bash %}
$ git clone https://github.com/theforeman/hammer-cli.git
$ cd hammer-cli
$ rake install
$ cd ..
{% endhighlight %}

and clone plugin with foreman commands

{% highlight bash %}
$ git clone https://github.com/theforeman/hammer-cli-foreman.git
$ cd hammer-cli-foreman
$ rake install
$ cd ..
{% endhighlight %}

You can install other hammer plugins via any of the methods mentioned above.
