
Activate the DHCP management module within the Smart Proxy instance.  This is used to query for available IP addresses (looking at existing leases and reservations), add new and delete existing reservations.  It cannot manage subnet declarations, which should be managed by another means (e.g. [puppet-dhcp](https://github.com/theforeman/puppet-dhcp)).

<pre>
:enabled: https
</pre>

If the DHCP server is ISC compliant then set **dhcp_vendor** to **isc**. In this case Smart Proxy must run on the same host as the DHCP server.
If the proxy is managing a Microsoft DHCP server then set **dhcp_vendor** to **native_ms**. Smart Proxy must then be run on an NT server so as to access the Microsoft native tools, though it does not have to be the same machine as the DHCP server. More details can be found in the [Foreman Architecture](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#ForemanArchitecture).

<pre>
:dhcp_vendor: isc
</pre>

The DHCP component needs access to the DHCP configuration file as well as the currently allocated leases.  For a Red Hat or Fedora-based host, the following values are typical:
<pre>
:dhcp_config: /etc/dhcp/dhcpd.conf
:dhcp_leases: /var/lib/dhcpd/dhcpd.leases
</pre>

On a Debian or Ubuntu DHCP server, use the following values instead:
<pre>
:dhcp_config: /etc/dhcp3/dhcpd.conf
:dhcp_leases: /var/lib/dhcp3/dhcpd.leases
</pre>

<div class="alert alert-info">The foreman-proxy account must be able to read both configuration files.  In particular, check the permissions on the parent directory (e.g. /etc/dhcp) permit world read/execute.</div>

If you secured your DHCP with an "omapi_key", add the entries:
<pre>
:dhcp_key_name: omapi_key
:dhcp_key_secret: XXXXXXXX
</pre>

If the DHCP server is listening on a non-standard OMAPI port (i.e. not 7911), then change this with:

<pre>
:dhcp_omapi_port: 7911
</pre>

Large numbers of subnets can slow the Smart Proxy down when iterating over the reservations.  You can request that the Smart Proxy only operate on a subset of the subnets managed by the DHCP server.  This works with both isc and native_ms providers.
<pre>
:dhcp_subnets: [192.168.1.0/255.255.255.0, 192.168.11.0/255.255.255.0]
</pre>
