
Foreman uses a custom puppet reports address (similar to tagmail or store) which Puppet will use to upload it's report into Foreman.
This enables you to see the reports through the web interface as soon as the client finish its run.

#### Configuration

##### Client

Ensure that the puppet clients has the following option in their puppet.conf:
<pre>report = true</pre>

Without it, no reports will be sent.

##### puppetmaster

1. copy [https://raw.github.com/theforeman/puppet-foreman/master/templates/foreman-report_v1.rb.erb](https://raw.github.com/theforeman/puppet-foreman/master/templates/foreman-report_v1.rb.erb) to your report directory
2. e.g. /usr/lib/ruby/1.8/puppet/reports/foreman.rb or /usr/lib/ruby/site_ruby/1.8/puppet/reports/foreman.rb or /var/lib/gems/1.8/gems/puppet-2.6.4/lib/puppet/reports/foreman.rb
3. make sure you copied the foreman-report_v1.rb.erb to **foreman.rb** so puppet can find it!
4. open the new file with your favorite editor
5. edit the URL to point to foreman.
6. add this report in your puppetmaster reports - e.g, in your master puppet.conf under the main section add:

<pre>reports=log, foreman</pre>

and restart your puppetmaster

You should start seeing reports coming in under the reports link.

#### Expire Reports automatically
 
You will probably want to delete your reports after some time to limit database growth. To do so, you can set a cronjob:

Available conditions:

* days => number of days to keep reports (defaults to 7)
* status => status of the report (defaults to 0 --> "reports with no errors")
 
Example:

1. Expires all reports regardless of their status
    <pre>rake reports:expire days=7 RAILS_ENV="production"</pre> 
2. expires all non interesting reports after one day
    <pre>rake reports:expire days=1 status=0 RAILS_ENV="production"</pre> 

*Note:* on Debian systems, these commands must be run as the *foreman* user from its default home directory.
