There are several ways you can get your facts visible in Foreman.

If you are planning using Foreman as your Puppet [External Nodes](#) Classifier, the *recommended* approach would be using the ENC script, which both updates your facts, and fetch the information at the same time.


#### Using Puppet Storeconfigs

Missing facts when using storeconfigs
If nodes are finishing their catalog runs, although the hosts operating system description is missing. Ensure that your /etc/puppet/puppet.conf contains the dbadapter under the [master] section. Add the following and either wait for a node to check in again, or manually run it with puppetd --test for this information to be updated.

_/etc/puppet/puppet.conf_
{% highlight yaml %}
[master]

  storeconfigs=true
  dbadapter=mysql
  dbuser= puppetuser
  dbpassword= puppetpass
  dbserver= mysql.domain.com
{% endhighlight %}



#### Running Foreman on the puppetmaster

If you run Foreman on the same machine as your puppetmaster and you have only one puppet master, you probably want to create a simple cronjob:
<pre>
rake puppet:import:hosts_and_facts RAILS_ENV=production
</pre>

this will import your facts (only new facts) every time you run the script.

#### Multiple puppet masters or Foreman on another server

#### Pushing facts through HTTP directly to Foreman

Foreman accepts remote puppetmaster sending their nodes facts through http, making it effective way to send facts over WAN.

This [script](https://github.com/theforeman/puppet-foreman/blob/283619064fbde0275235535b19c53da249357035/files/push_facts.rb) is meant to run on each of your puppetmasters. The script will scan over all of the new fact files (from its last run) and will send them to foreman.

You will need to edit the script and set the Foreman URL (based on where Foreman is located in your setup).

You should run this script in a cronjob, if you have many puppet masters, you might consider adding a simple sleep argument (as mentioned inside the script header), this will avoid all of your puppetmasters hammering your database at the same time.

#### local file system access to fact yaml files

The previously mentioned  rake task accepts a _dir_ parameter, which means you can tell it to import facts from any directory.
if you store your fact yaml on some network share, or if you want to mount your puppetmaster you can:
<pre>
rake puppet:import:hosts_and_facts dir=/my/dir/with/yaml/files RAILS_ENV=production
</pre>

However, I would not recommend this option if you have any network latency or if it requires you to run an NFS (or sshfs) etc
