
The configuration for Smart-Proxy is held in the */etc/foreman-proxy/settings.yml* or *config/settings.yml* file.

#### YAML start

The first non-comment line of this file must be three dashes.

<pre>---</pre>

#### SSL configuration

The existence of all the three ssl key entries below enables the use of an SSL connections.

**NOTE** that both client certificates need to be signed by the same CA, which must be in the *ssl_ca_file*, in order for this to work
see [**SSL**](manuals/1.1/index.html#4.3.6SSL) for more information

<pre>
  :ssl_certificate: ssl/certs/fqdn.pem
  :ssl_ca_file: ssl/certs/ca.pem
  :ssl_private_key: ssl/private_keys/fqdn.key
</pre>

This is the list of hosts from which the smart proxy will accept connections. If this list is empty then every verified SSL connection is allowed to access the API.
<pre>
:trusted_hosts:
- foreman.prod.domain
- foreman.dev.domain
</pre>

#### Instance attributes

If this entry is present and not false then Smart-Proxy will attempt to disconnect itself from the controlling terminal and daemonize itself.

<pre>
:daemon: true
</pre>

The port listened to by the proxy. If this is not present then the default Sinatra port of 4567 is used.

<pre>
:port: 8443
</pre>

#### TFTP section

Activate the TFTP management module within the Smart-Proxy instance. 

The *tftproot* value is directory into which tftp files are copied and then served from. The tftp daemon will also be expected to chroot to this location. This component is only supported in the Unix environment
<pre>
:tftp: true
:tftproot: /var/lib/tftpboot
:tftp_servername: name of your tftp server (used for next server value in your dhcp reservation) - defaults to the host name of your proxy.
</pre>

**NOTE**: the foreman proxy user must have read/write access to the _tftpboot/pxelinux.cfg_ and _tftpboot/boot_ directories.

#### DNS section

Activate the DNS management module within the Smart-Proxy instance. 

The DNS module can manipulate any DNS server that complies with the ISC Dynamic DNS Update standard and can therefore be used to manage both Microsoft and Bind servers.

The **dns_key** is used to validate the client request. If it is not present then the update operation is performed without peer verification, (not recommended.)
The **dns_server** option is used if the Smart-Proxy is not located on the same physical host as the DNS server. If it is not specified then localhost is presumed.
<pre>
:dns: true
:dns_key: /home/proxy/keys/Kapi.+157+47848.private
:dns_server: dnsserver.site.domain.com
</pre>

**NOTE**: if you use a key, make sure that the foreman proxy account can read that file.

#### DHCP section

Activate the DHCP management module within the Smart-Proxy instance. 

<pre>
:dhcp: true
</pre>

If the DHCP server is ISC compliant then set **dhcp_vendor** to **isc**. In this case Smart-Proxy must run on the same host as the DHCP server. 
If the proxy is managing a Microsoft DHCP server then set **dhcp_vendor** to **native_ms**. Smart-Proxy must then be run on an NT server so as to access the Microsoft native tools, though it does not have to be the same machine as the DHCP server. More details can be found at [[Foreman:Foreman Architecture]].

<pre>
:dhcp_vendor: isc
</pre>

The DHCP component needs access to the DHCP configuration file as well as the currently allocated leases. The section below shows these values for a RedHat client. In the case of a Smart-Proxy hosted on an Ubuntu machine then these values would be more appropriate: **/etc/dhcp3/dhcpd.conf** and **/var/lib/dhcp3/dhcpd.leases**

<pre>
:dhcp_config: etc/dhcpd.conf
:dhcp_leases: etc/dhcpd.leases
</pre>

**NOTE**: Make sure that the foreman proxy account can read both ISC configuration files.

If your **native_ms** implementation is slow then you can request that the smart proxy only operate on a subset of the subnets managed by the dhcp server.
<pre>
:dhcp_subnets: [192.168.1.0/255.255.255.0, 192.168.11.0/255.255.255.0]
</pre>
If you secured your DHCP with an "omapi_key", add the entries:
<pre>
:dhcp_key_name: omapi_key
:dhcp_key_secret: XXXXXXXX
</pre>

#### Puppet Certificate Authority section

Activate the Puppet CA management module within the Smart-Proxy instance. 

This should only be enabled in the Smart-Proxy that is hosted on the machine responsible for providing certificates to your puppet clients. You would expect to see a directory **/var/lib/puppet/ssl/ca** on such a host.
<pre>
:puppetca: true
</pre>

If your puppet SSL directory is located elsewhere, you'll need to set 'ssldir' as well.
<pre>
:ssldir: /etc/puppet/ssl
</pre>

<pre>
:puppetdir: /etc/puppet
</pre>

The proxy requires write access to the puppet autosign.conf file, which is usually owner and group puppet, and has mode 0644 according to the puppet defaults.

Ensure the foreman-proxy user is added to the puppet group ( e.g. `gpasswd -a foreman-proxy puppet` or `usermod -aG puppet foreman-proxy`)

puppet.conf:
<pre>
[master]
autosign = $confdir/autosign.conf {owner = service, group = service, mode = 664 }
</pre>


Sudo access to the proxy is required - in your sudoers file ensure you have the following lines:

For older puppet (pre-3.0) with separate sub-commands available:

<pre>
foreman-proxy ALL = NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/puppetca *
Defaults:foreman-proxy !requiretty
</pre>

For newer monolithic puppet without separate commands (3.0-onwards)

<pre>
foreman-proxy ALL = NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/puppet cert *
Defaults:foreman-proxy !requiretty
</pre>


#### Puppet section

Activate the puppet management module within the Smart-Proxy instance. 

This should only be enabled in the Smart-Proxy that is hosted on the machine capable of executing *puppetrun*. This will be a puppetmaster.
This can also be set to true if you need to import puppet classes from the puppetmaster. Without this the import will not be possible

<pre>
:puppet: true
</pre>

<pre>
:puppet_conf: /etc/puppet/puppet.conf
# Defaults to %INSTALL_DIR%/.puppet/puppet.conf
</pre>

Sudo access to the proxy is required - in your sudoers file ensure you have the following lines:

<pre>
Defaults:foreman-proxy !requiretty
foreman-proxy ALL = NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/puppetrun
</pre>
If running puppet version 2.6+ you will need to use the following  (use /opt/puppet/bin/puppet for Puppet Enterprise)
<pre>
Defaults:foreman-proxy !requiretty
foreman-proxy ALL = NOPASSWD: /usr/bin/puppet
</pre>

**EDIT** In my case the account which was triggering puppetrun was not foreman-proxy but *foreman* itself. It took me some time to figure out why puppetruns are not triggered.

#### Logging

The proxy's output is captured to the **log_file** and may be filtered via the usual unix syslog levels:

* *WARN*
* *DEBUG*
* *ERROR*
* *FATAL*
* *INFO*
* *UNKNOWN*

See Ruby's [Logger class](http://www.ruby-doc.org/stdlib/libdoc/logger/rdoc/classes/Logger.html) for details.

<pre>
:log_file: /tmp/proxy.log
:log_level: DEBUG
</pre>
