
Activate the DNS management module within the Smart Proxy instance.  This is used to update and remove DNS records from existing DNS zones.

The DNS module can manipulate any DNS server that complies with the ISC Dynamic DNS Update standard and can therefore be used to manage both Microsoft Active Directory and BIND servers.  Updates can also be made using GSS-TSIG, see the second section below.  Additional providers are available for managing libvirt's embedded DNS server (dnsmasq) and Microsoft Active Directory using dnscmd, for static DNS records, avoiding scavenging.

Available providers are:

* `nsupdate` - dynamic DNS update using nsupdate
* `nsupdate_gss` - dynamic DNS update with GSS-TSIG
* `virsh` - libvirt embedded DNS (dnsmasq)
* `dnscmd` - static DNS records in Microsoft Active Directory

The **dns_key** specifies a file containing a shared secret used to generate a signature for the update request (TSIG record). This option should not be used if you plan to use Kerberos/GSS-TSIG (for example for DNS servers shipped with FreeIPA or Microsoft AD).

If neither the **dns_key** or GSS-TSIG is used then the update request is sent without any signature. Unsigned update requests are considered insecure. Some DNS servers can be configured to accept only signed signatures.

The **dns_server** option is used if the Smart Proxy is not located on the same physical host as the DNS server. If it is not specified then localhost is presumed.
<pre>
:enabled: https
:dns_provider: nsupdate
:dns_key: /home/proxy/keys/Kapi.+157+47848.private
:dns_server: dnsserver.site.domain.com
</pre>

<div class="alert alert-info">If you use a key file or keytab, make sure that the foreman-proxy account can read that file.</div>

The TTL of DNS records added by the Smart Proxy is 86400 seconds (one day).  This can be changed with the dns_ttl setting:
<pre>
:dns_ttl: 86400
</pre>

GSS-TSIG authentication is controlled using the following settings, see the second section below for further details.
<pre>
:dns_tsig_keytab: /usr/share/foreman-proxy/dns.keytab
:dns_tsig_principal: DNS/host.example.com@EXAMPLE.COM
</pre>
