
The Foreman packages should work on the following Debian-based Linux distributions:

#### Distributions

* Debian Linux 6.0 (Squeeze)
* Ubuntu Linux 12.04 LTS

Foreman might still work on these distros, but it has not been tested (let us know if it works for you):

* Debian Linux 5.0 (Lenny)
* Ubuntu Linux 11.04
* Ubuntu Linux 10.10

If you encounter any errors during the installation, [please file a bug report!](http://theforeman.org/projects/foreman/issues/new)

#### Apt Configuration

Add one of the following lines to your */etc/apt/sources.list* (alternatively in a separate file in */etc/apt/sources.list.d/foreman.list*):

{% highlight bash %}
# Stable packages

# Debian Squeeze
deb http://deb.theforeman.org/ squeeze stable
# Ubuntu Precise
deb http://deb.theforeman.org/ precise stable

# RC packages - these will only exist during an Release Candidate phase leading up to a release

# Debian Squeeze
deb http://deb.theforeman.org/ squeeze rc
# Ubuntu Precise
deb http://deb.theforeman.org/ precise rc

# Nightly builds. Beware: HERE BE DRAGONS

# Debian Squeeze
deb http://deb.theforeman.org/ squeeze nightly
# Ubuntu Precise
deb http://deb.theforeman.org/ precise nightly
{% endhighlight %}

The public key for [secure APT](http://wiki.debian.org/SecureApt) can be downloaded [here](http://deb.theforeman.org/foreman.asc)

You can add this key with
<pre>apt-key add foreman.asc</pre>

or combine downloading and registering:
<pre>wget -q http://deb.theforeman.org/foreman.asc -O- | apt-key add -</pre>

The key fingerprint is
<pre>
1DCB 15D1 2CA1 40EE F494  7E57 66CF 053F E775 FF07
Foreman Archive Signing Key <packages@theforeman.org>
</pre>

Remember to update your package lists!

<pre>apt-get update</pre>

#### Install packages

The packages are now split by gem dependencies - there are 11 packages to choose from. These are:

Main package:

* foreman

Database gems - you need at least one of these:

* foreman-sqlite3
* foreman-mysql2
* foreman-mysql
* foreman-pgsql

Optional functionality:

* foreman-console
* foreman-compute
* foreman-libvirt
* foreman-ovirt
* foreman-test
* foreman-vmware

Installation instructions are:

{% highlight bash %}
# Install packages  (adjust additional packages as needed)
apt-get install foreman foreman-sqlite3 foreman-libvirt

# Copy sample db config to /etc
cp /usr/share/foreman/config/database.yml.example /etc/foreman/database.yml

# Review settings and DB config
vi /etc/foreman/settings.yaml /etc/foreman/database.yml

# Perform initial DB setup
su - foreman -s /bin/bash -c /usr/share/foreman/extras/dbmigrate
{% endhighlight %}

The packages should auto-run db:migrate if */etc/foreman/database.yml* exists. So the initial db:migrate is only needed during first install, upgrades should just work.

#### Upgrading from 0.4.2

Upgrading from 0.4.2 to 1.0 has been tested on Debian 6 (32 and 64 bit) and we expect that simply upgrading should work fine

<pre>
apt-get update
apt-get dist-upgrade
</pre>

The packages include a db:migrate, so your database will be migrated too. However, please note the new split-package architecture - you may want check and see if any of the new dependencies fit your usecase(s).

<pre>apt-cache search foreman</pre>

#### Upgrading from 1.0

Upgrading from 1.0 to 1.1 has been tested on Debian 6 (32 and 64 bit) and on Ubuntu 12.04 (32 and 64 bit). The only notable packaging change is that the packages are now self-sufficient - they no longer call out to Github/Rubygems during the postinst. This should be upgrade-safe (and has been tested) but odd environments may affect the upgrade. If in doubt, ask in IRC.

Please note foreman-fog has been renamed to foreman-compute - this should happen transparently through Apt

#### Upgrading from 1.1

Upgrading from 1.1 to 1.2 has been tested on Debian 6 and Ubuntu 12.04.  Updating the packages will upgrade the application and automatically migrate the database.  Please take a backup of your database prior to attempting an upgrade, in case you need to rollback later.

