
Foreman is packaged for the following RPM based distributions:

* RHEL and derivatives, versions 5 and 6
* Fedora 18

For most users, it's highly recommended to use the [installer](manuals/1.2/index.html#3.2ForemanInstaller) as the packages only provide the software and a standalone Foreman service.  The installer installs these packages, then additionally configures Foreman to run under Apache and Passenger with PostgreSQL, plus can configure a complete Puppet setup integrated with Foreman.

#### Pre-requisites

All RHEL and derivatives must be [subscribed to EPEL](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL) to provide additional dependencies.  Install epel-release from [here](http://fedoraproject.org/wiki/EPEL#How_can_I_use_these_extra_packages.3F) to automatically configure it.

RHEL 5 hosts must also be subscribed to the RHN Virtualization channel in RHN.

RHEL 6 hosts must also be subscribed to the "Optional" channel in RHN.

Optionally, the Puppet Labs repository can be configured to obtain the latest version of Puppet available, instead of the version on EPEL.  See the [Puppet Labs Package Repositories](http://docs.puppetlabs.com/guides/puppetlabs_package_repositories.html#for-red-hat-enterprise-linux-and-derivatives) documentation on how to configure these.

#### Available repositories

Three main repos are provided at <http://yum.theforeman.org>:

* `/releases/latest` or `/releases/VERSION` (e.g. `/releases/1.2`) carries the stable releases and updates of Foreman and its dependencies.
* `/rc` carries release candidates only in the few weeks prior to a release.  Ensure after a release is made that you use the main releases repo instead.
* `/nightly` carries the latest development builds and as such, may be unstable or occasionally broken.

Under each repo are directories for each distribution, then each architecture.

#### Release packages

To set up the repository, foreman-release packages are provided which add a repo definition to `/etc/yum.repos.d`.  Install the appropriate release RPM from these lists:

x86_64 architecture:

    yum localinstall http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/1.2/el5/x86_64/foreman-release-1.2.0-1.el5.noarch.rpm
    yum localinstall http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/1.2/el6/x86_64/foreman-release-1.2.0-1.el6.noarch.rpm
    yum localinstall http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/1.2/f18/x86_64/foreman-release-1.2.0-1.fc18.noarch.rpm

i386 architecture:

    yum localinstall http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/1.2/el5/i386/foreman-release-1.2.0-1.el5.noarch.rpm
    yum localinstall http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/1.2/el6/i386/foreman-release-1.2.0-1.el6.noarch.rpm
    yum localinstall http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/1.2/f18/i386/foreman-release-1.2.0-1.fc18.noarch.rpm

For release candidate or nightly RPMs, change the URL as appropriate based on the above list of available repositories.

#### Signing

Release and release candidate packages are signed by the "Foreman Archive Signing Key <packages@theforeman.org>" (0xE775FF07).  Nightly packages are not signed.

A copy of the key is available from public keyservers or [here](http://yum.theforeman.org/RPM-GPG-KEY-foreman).

#### Available packages

Install foreman and other foreman-* packages to add functionality:

    foreman               Foreman server
    foreman-proxy         Foreman Smart Proxy
    foreman-compute       EC2, OpenStack and Rackspace provisioning support
    foreman-libvirt       libvirt provisioning support
    foreman-ovirt         oVirt/RHEV provisioning support
    foreman-vmware        VMware provisioning support
    foreman-cli           Foreman CLI utility
    foreman-console       Console additions
    foreman-selinux       SELinux targeted policy
    foreman-mysql         MySQL database support
    foreman-mysql2        MySQL database support
    foreman-postgresql    PostgreSQL database support
    foreman-sqlite        SQLite database support

#### Setup

1. Configure by editing `/etc/foreman/settings.yaml` and `/etc/foreman/database.yml`
1. After changing the database, migrate it: `sudo -u foreman /usr/share/foreman/extras/dbmigrate`
1. Start the foreman service or set up passenger: `service foreman start`

#### Upgrading from 1.1

Please take a backup of your database prior to attempting an upgrade, in case you need to rollback later.

To upgrade an existing Foreman 1.1 installation, first update with the appropriate foreman-release package from the above list of release packages, e.g.

    yum upgrade http://yum.theforeman.org/releases/1.2/el6/x86_64/foreman-release-1.2.0-1.el6.noarch.rpm
    cat /etc/yum.repos.d/foreman.repo.rpmnew > /etc/yum.repos.d/foreman.repo

Next upgrade all Foreman packages and migrate the database:

    yum upgrade foreman\*
    sudo -u foreman /usr/share/foreman/extras/dbmigrate

If you use Apache and Passenger (the default installer configuration), additional changes are required to support SCL:

    yum upgrade \*passenger\*
    yum install ruby193-rubygem-passenger-native
    sed -i.bak '/RackAutoDetect/d' /etc/httpd/conf.d/puppet.conf
    sed -i.bak 's|RailsAutoDetect.*|PassengerRuby /usr/bin/ruby193-ruby|' /etc/httpd/conf.d/foreman.conf
    service httpd restart

It's recommended to clear your browser's cookies after the upgrade.  If you wish to install the SELinux policy, also install the foreman-selinux package.

