
After installation, the Foreman installer will have set up a puppet master on the host, fully integrated with Foreman.  First run the Puppet agent on the Foreman host which will send the first Puppet report to Foreman, automatically creating the host in Foreman's database.

{% highlight bash %}
sudo puppet agent --test
{% endhighlight %}

<div class="alert alert-info">Puppet will show a warning the first time that the node can't be found, this can be ignored.</div>

In Foreman, click on the *Hosts* tab and your Foreman host should be visible in the list with an "O" status.  This indicates its status is OK, with no changes made on the last Puppet run.

#### Downloading a Puppet module

Next, we'll install a Puppet module for managing the NTP service from [Puppet Forge](http://forge.puppetlabs.com) to our "production" environment (the default):

{% highlight bash %}
sudo puppet module install puppetlabs/ntp
{% endhighlight %}

In Foreman, go to *Configure > Classes* and click *Import from hostname* (top right) to read the available Puppet classes from the puppet master and populate Foreman's database.  The "ntp" class will appear in the Puppet class list if installed correctly.

#### Using the Puppet module

Click on the "ntp" class in the list, change to the *Smart Class Parameters* tab and select the *servers* parameter on the left hand side.  Tick the *Override* checkbox so Foreman manages the "servers" parameter of the class and change the default value if desired, before submitting the page.

* More info: [Parameterized classes documentation](/manuals/{{page.version}}/index.html#4.2.5ParameterizedClasses)
* Screencast: [Parameterized class support in Foreman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ksr0tilbmcc)

Change back to the *Hosts* tab and click *Edit* on the Foreman host.  On the *Puppet Classes* tab, expand the *ntp* module and click the + icon to add the *ntp* class to the host, then save the host.

<div class="alert alert-info">Managed parameters can be overridden when editing an individual host from its <i>Parameters</i> tab.</div>

Clicking the *YAML* button when back on the host page will show the *ntp* class and the servers parameter, as passed to Puppet via the ENC (external node classifier) interface.  Re-run `puppet agent --test` on the Foreman host to see the NTP service automatically reconfigured by Puppet and the NTP module.

#### Adding more Puppet-managed hosts

Other hosts with Puppet agents installed can use this puppet master by setting `server = foreman.example.com` in puppet.conf.  Sign their certificates in Foreman by going to *Infrastructure > Smart Proxies > Certificates* or using `puppet cert list` and `puppet cert sign` on the puppet master.

Puppet classes can be added to host groups in Foreman instead of individual hosts, enabling a standard configuration of many hosts simultaneously.  Host groups are typically used to represent server roles.
